home | about | search | site map | blog ( an rma is not required but helps expedite things for you ) we will send you a ups return shipping label ( by email ) to affix to the package dropthe package at any ups location , see www.ups.com ( be sure to include a copy of your receipt and instructions for refund or exchange ) - if you don 't want to use our prepaid label , or you live outside the us you can mail the products back with the carrier of your choice does it cost anything to return an item for a refund ?
what if i want to use usps or another carrier ? - we try to process refunds on the same business day we receive the item ( s ) , but it might take a few days to appear in your account what if i used a freight forwarding service to ship my items internationally ?
we treat our customers with care and respect , the same way we want to be treated .
we stand behind the products we sell 100 % . if for any reason you are not satisfied with your purchase simply return it for a full refund her majesty the queen celebrates the 60th anniversary of her coronationthis year - and she is working as hard as ever ! issues and politics of the race to county hall for 2013 and lawyers to overthrow centuries of tradition in order to curtail at km groupwe ’ re proud to pay tribute to the brave men looking for something to do at the weekend ?
had a big clear-out at home ?
car boot sale season is back !
click here to find your local event ...
play today 's quiz below to see if you can top the leader-board and return tomorrow for a new set of questions !
register your result and you could win £ 250 !
medway big quiz , 15 / 11 / 2013 .
a great evening of quizzing and fundraising ...
post an ad in our publications and onto the website , or search what is currently on offer in kent ...
homehomehot topics ( 4 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americasouth americaargentinaboliviabrazilchilecolombiaecuadorfalkland islandsperuuruguayvenezuela ecuador lashes out at us exceptionalismlakehouse daily news 21 : 22 6-oct-13 if the link you clicked was incorrect , click the back button on your browser to return to the last page you visited , or click the link below to go to the home page .
a week ’ s worth of stateline 's original reporting and analysis of key state issues .
delivered on mondays .
are you interested in customizing a range of email alerts using advanced tools ?
if so , we suggest you use the inboxrobot .
did you know there are 17 species of penguins in antarctica ?
homelatest newscosta blanca newscosta levante newscosta almeria newscosta del sol newsspanish national newsbritish scenecork talkinside spainmed tv guideliving in spainyellow pagesphoto gallery where in the story does it say he ' butchered ' her , & # 8230 ; please note : prices are for 4 weeks .
you can design your own advert or we can design it for you .
send your orders by e-mail to snorkeling adventure at the end of the world - the bimini vortex commentary : one scapegoat does not fix liat or caribbean airlines no comments on this topic yet .
be the first one to submit a comment. provide .
if the address is not valid or you don 't click on the validation eccb celebrates 30 years of monetary and financial stability in the eccu montserrat presents on use of ict in disaster management at un eclac workshop commonwealth small states advocacy mission to be led by st kitts-nevis pm war of words escalates over turks and caicos attorney general letter : caribbean politicians must address the wrongs of today before the wrongs of yesteryear letter : is ralph gonsalves the prime minister of only the ulp and its followers ?
this site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more detailsthis site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
review our cookies information for more details state commissioners ask epa for stricter vehicle and fuel standards saturday morning & the stalls are going up for the bangsaen bikeweek event from 2.30 pm many bikes rolled in so keep clicking on our pages to see it as it unfolded hey mc riders in the meantime if youre into buying one of our limited print edition sturgis by the way these pages are dedicated to all the foreign and thai mc clubs in thailand where one can " ride hard & live life to its fullest " if you are an mc in thailand send your banner & link to us .
more [ bang saen bike week page 3 ] more [ bang saen harleys for sale ] dec 6-7th 2008 chiangmai north comets bike week [ see pics ] december 13th formulate bike party sat chiangmai [ see pics ] vfrs & cbrs for parts ] [ new honda 125 waves , sonics ] [ new cbr honda 150cc ] [ honda bikes ] [ new cbr 2004 150cc ] [ thai & car t shirts ] [ kids mini racing bikes ] [ your own bike ] [ honda nsr 150cc ] [ vfr bikes ex china ] [ export crates ] [ new yamaha vehicles to thailand ] [ freight forwarding ] [ container cost ] [ sea freight ] [ air freight ] [ airlines in thailand ] [ back to exporters list ] [ container cost ] [ shipping to usa ] [ shipping personal items ] [ shipping cars ] [ shipping agent ] [ buddha images & food ] [ tariffs ] [ letter of credit ] [ fine arts license ] post co ltd by way of contract .
all infringements will be an infringement view the ' kings of the north ' in the polar bear capital of the world by day and enjoy the beautiful northern lights by night.save $ 1,013 per person .
encounter the king of the arctic — the polar bear — in its natural habitat , as you follow in the wake of viking explorers from the comfort of a luxury expedition vessel.receive free airfare ( value up to $ 1,700 per person ) .
encounter the king of the arctic — the polar bear — in its natural habitat , as you follow in the wake of viking explorers from the comfort of a luxury expedition vessel .
voyage on a luxury expedition cruise through the rugged coastal regions of greenland marveling at majestic icebergs and the glacier of disko bay.save up to $ 2,540 per person .
site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeo each lesson is meant to show how color can be used on a map to illustrate president kikwete meets mcc ceo and oman 's foreign minister in new york my people , do you see what is happening ?
while our foreign affairs representatives seemingly sit idly by , twiddling their thumbs and cowing to the demands of guatemala and towing the line with the oas , our neighbour to the west is doing precisely what we should … that is actively engaging the international community !
in our case , the effort must be to buttress our already acknowledged status as a sovereign nation , whose territory is intact .
based on developments like the one detailed in the article , i am baffled at the level of ineffectiveness as well as the depth to which belize ’ s representatives are out of touch . it is for this reason that belizeans must not depend on the gob to do what is in our best interest . the people must make them accountable and if the winners of the most recent , national popularity contest persist in such fashion , the true advent of “ people power ” must be realised .
in sum , belizeans and true friends of belize , i beg you to ask yourself this question , “ am i satisfied with the manner in which our foreign affairs efforts involving guatemala , its unfounded claim and the entire oas shenanigan are being handled ? ”
think about it … i am sure the representation or the lack thereof belize is not getting is not as a cause of the lack of qualified personel , but more a lack of confidence in the representative themselves ......... belizeans are not of the opinion they are expressing at this meeting ..... they are not wanting to have any referendum whatsoever .
what we justly want is to show the world that we have honored and will continue to honor the 1859 treaty , which delineates the boundary of the nation state of belize .
all we ask of our foreign ministry , is to represent the sentiments of the belizean people ....... if that isn 't the easiest agenda ever given to a foreign ministry , then i stand to be corrected .
we do not want any icj in any shape way or form .... i say this representing not just myself , but the sentiments of too many that are afraid of being victimized in their being public about the way they think and their democratically expressed views .
morocco ’ s atlantic radio looks set for a major overhaul in a bid to stop a slide in its audience .
according to our sources , abdelmounaim dilami , ceo of eco-medias , which owns the station , ( ... )
according to our sources , a trio of equatorial guinean officials travelled to morocco at the beginning of september in a bid to settle a long-standing dispute with miloud chaabi , the ( ... )
morocco ’ s brand new energy and mines minister , fouad douiri , is one of the rare ( ... )
february 20 , 2013 i am thanking you in advance for better equipping me to participate in the upcoming decision-making process through your clarifications on my few remaining questions : 1 .
what is guatemala ’ s official position as to how much of the territory ...
commentary : belizeans abroad should be given the right to vote on the icj referendum guatemala experts discuss the end of the mayan era and the dawn of another registered users can request assistance from our professional editors.noua „ piața universității ” | cadran politic protestele împotriva folosirii cianurilor pentru exploatarea aurului la roșia montana continuă .
și pe măsură ce ele continuă , devin din ce în ce mai bine organizate și cu un impact politic greu de evaluat în momentul de față . după douăzeci de ani , piața universității subminează din nou partidul lui ion iliescu .
la o primă vedere , principalul perdant este psd și liderii săi , victor ponta și sorin oprescu .
ambii au reușit să gafeze neforțat în situații simple .
eforturile lor de refacere a imaginii nu au făcut altceva decât să le arate și mai mult slăbiciunile .
psd ca partid de stânga se trezește cu o altă „ stânga ” , mai soft și mai umană , în vreme ce guvernarea lor este una de dreapta , deloc diferită de guvernarea pd .
spre deosebire de predecesorii săi incapabili de orice sentiment de compasiune , emil boc și mihai răzvan ungureanu , victor ponta a mimat convingător empatia , deși practic continuă politicile lor : acord cu fmi , grijă exagerată față de corporații și investitori , privatizare & # 8230 ; toate tezele favorite ale dreptei .
ponta a ales să tărăgăneze în speranța că protestele se vor stinge de la sine , însă rezultatul este cu totul altul , de la weekend la weekend crește numărul participanților .
prin vocea lui zgonea , psd a ales să fie pro-exploatare , pnl s-a poziționat contra .
traian băsescu preferă poziția atârnache încercând să-și promoveze „ oamenii noi ” .
ceea ce a deranjat în cazul roșia montană , la fel ca în 2012 în cazul legii sănătății , este modul în care se iau decizii , în cazul de față este favorizată o corporație printr-o lege specială exagerat de favorabilă .
sentimentul statului capturat de diverse interese potrivnice cetățeanului .
până la urmă , pentru toată lumea , roșia montană este un pretext .
pentru rmgc exploatarea aurului este pretextul pentru o foarte lucrativă speculație bursieră ( nici un investitor serios nu acceptă o tărăgănare de 10 ani a unui proiect dacă este interesat cu adevărat de acel proiect și nu de altceva ) , pentru cei din piață este doar un exemplu de guvernare inacceptabilă .
până nu a apărut această lege și bâlbâielile guvernului , proiectul interesa doar grupuscule mai degrabă nesemnificative de ecologiști .
ce se va întâmpla cu aceste proteste ?
depinde în ce grilă le analizăm .
protestele reprezintă un succes enorm prin numărul mare de participanți și calitatea organizării .
faptul că ele se deplasează în cartiere abandonând modelul falimentarului dans al pinguinului din piața victoriei este o idee excelentă , arătând ce & # 8230 ; nu se vede la televizor .
arătând că se poate , că vocea străzii trebuie să conteze .
nu trebuie uitat că aici discutăm de o problemă „ soft ” , nu ca în bulgaria sau grecia .
este , dacă vreți , un exercițiu înaintea liberalizării prețurilor la gaze și energie , a creșterii costurilor cu sănătatea .
faptul că o chestiune „ de principiu ” reușește să scoată în stradă atâta lume , după aproape două decenii de liniște socială , este un preview semnificativ pentru ce se va întâmpla când efectul politicilor din ultimii ani va ustura cu adevărat buzunarele .
este o presiune socială care nu are unde să se canalizeze .
un nou partid nu poate apărea datorită restricțiilor legislative pe care actuala clasă politică nu are nici un interes să le elimine .
partidele actuale nu pot prelua mesajele , încercările penibile ale unor lideri „ de dreapta ” eșuând lamentabil .
nu exclud ca evoluția politică să fie către un „ partid ” de independenți , fără organizare formală , fără organizații ( excluzând organizația facebook ) și care să participe la alegeri individual .
cu cât durează mai mult , cu atât cresc șansele coagulării unui program politic coerent cu șanse mari de reușită .
“ in anii ’ 80 capitalismul a triumfat asupra comunismului .
in anii ’ 90 capitalismul a triumfat asupra democratiei si economiei de piata .
pentru aceea dintre noi care au crescut in ideea ca fundamentul democratiei si libertatii pietei este capitalismul , realizarea faptului ca sub capitalism democratia este vanduta celui care plateste mai mult de pe piata si ca piata este planificata de catre megacorporatii mai mari decat cele mai multe dintre state , a reprezentat o cruda trezire la realitate ...
scapat de sub controlul opiniei publice , capitalismul este boala democratiei si a economiei de piata . ”
“ geopolitics of xxi century will be cosmo-humanist in its essence ” – about the power of information and policy of millennium iii with acad .
albert ignatenko “ geopolitica secolului xxi va fi una de factură cosmo-umanista ” – despre puterea informatiei si politica mileniului iii , impreuna cu acad .
albert ignatenko noua conducere de la beijing- o reală schimbare în politica chineză ?
revoluția din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator & # 8211 ; emil constantinescu a fi musulman .
islam , pace şi democratie & # 8211 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal commentary : the us war on communism , drugs , and terrorism in colombia the 17 lawmakers from the opposition uprona party and three cndd-fdd .
nobody can bet on his independence because he will be judge and jury , " the position of ombudsman was a provision of the 2000 it had not previously been filled due to the lack of the the ombudsman is meant to play a key role in crisis resolution and can also arbitrate corruption and rights cases if the judiciary by insecurity which the government blames on " armed bandits " who emerged after a be sure to read the new york times backgrounder on how a consortium of conservative groups — kochs , club for growth and more — have been conspiring and spending huge sums to lead us to the use of a government shutdown to kill the federal health care law .
griffin and cotton are undoubtedly proud to be part of a scheme hatched by easy ed meese .
tickets are free for uca students and $ 5 for the public .
the lecture ( and simulcast ) is at 7 : 30 p.m.
to buy a ticket , go to uca.edu / reynolds or call the box office , 501-450-3265 .
this site uses cookies .
by continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies .
find out more here .
de la torre is expected to report on the implementation of the agreed trade facilitation agenda at the next private meeting of ceos and chairmen of central america and the caribbean , scheduled to take place in haiti next year.reads : 3707 msd allays public fear over shortage of arvs na queenter mawinda atripla drug which contained tenofovir 300mg , emtricitabine 200gm and efavirenz 600mg is an alternative drug recommended by the authorities for hiv treatment , he said . & ldquo ; & hellip ; and because of that , we are concerned as to how they will handle the ict national backbone if we not hand it over to them & hellip ; & rdquo ; ippmedia.com © 1998-2013 .
all rights reservedbrookings register blessed be the canines les milices congolaises forceraient les civils à leur acheter des armes les milices congolaises forceraient les civils à leur acheter des dans l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , les groupes armés ont imposé une nouvelle loi aux familles des villages qu ’ ils contrôlent : chacune d ’ entre elles devra acheter une arme à feu auprès du groupe armé local , ce ne sont pas les armes qui manquaient déjà dans le masisi .
maintenant , et d ’ après de nombreuses personnes qui y ont fui la violence , posséder une arme à feu est devenu pratiquement une obligation dans certains des villages de ce ces personnes déplacées , qui appartiennent à différentes ethnies de la région , vivent dans un camp au village de shasha , non loin du masisi .
le soi-disant selon m. bonane , ceux qui essaient de retourner à leurs villages , pour s ’ occuper de leurs champs , se voient dire par les groupes armés qu ’ ils doivent acheter des armes à feu .
et une dizaine de ses compagnons , dont nyirumba vuleta , le m. vuleta affirme avoir été harcelé quand il est retourné à son village .
les hommes armés qui contrôlent le secteur lui ont dit que , puisqu ’ il a un champ , il doit avoir un fusil , et s ’ il n ’ en achète pas un , il devra partir .
mais ce n ’ est pas tout , explique m. bonane , il y a une troisième option : travailler comme un esclave .
selon lui , on force les villageois à acheter des fusils pour qu ’ ils puissent défendre leurs villages en cas d ’ attaque .
ceux qui ne se plient pas à cette décision sont obligés de travailler , sans paie , comme gardiens .
et si les désaccords avec le groupe armé local persistent , ils cette nouvelle loi sur les achats d ’ armes a été imposée en mai dans les territoires de masisi et de walikalé par les milices nyatura et raia mutomboki .
selon lui , des politiciens et certains officiers de l ’ armée fournissent ces armes , mais il a – comme beaucoup d ’ autres – refusé de s ’ armer , pour éviter parmi les politiciens identifiés par adolphe bonane : jean-bosco sebishimbo , un a la mission de l 'onu pour la stabilisation de la rdc , la monusco , une source dit qu ’ une équipe se rendra au camp de shasha pour enquêter sur ces allégations .
message de condoleances adresse aux familles vicimes des recents massacres de gatumba et au peuple burundais .
declaration du cndd au sujet de la question des negociations rapport du projet mapping concernant les violations les plus graves des droits de l ’ homme et du droit international humanitaire commises entre mars 1993 et juin 2003 sur le territoire de la république démocratique du congo memorandum sur les irregularites et fraudes massives des elections communales du 24 mai 2010 declaration du parti cndd au sujet de la greve des enseignants du primaire et du secondaire anglais | données | images | archives | contactez-nous | rendez-vous what is the primary reason you are reporting this message as abusive ?
all you can eat buffet which is good . you are paying for convenience at this hotel .
road maps .
road maps .
map of petchaburi , nakhon sawan highways , khon kean , ] [ kampaeng phet map , nakhon sawan map , chaiyaphun map , pichet map , uthai thani map ] [ phrae map , uttradit map , loei map , lampang map ] [ nong khai map , udon thani map , sakhon nakhon map , nakon phanom map , cambodian border map ] [ kalasin map , roi et map , udon ratchatani map , mukdahan map , cambodian map ] [ nakhon ratchasim map , buri ram map , udon ratchatani map , surin map , kalasin map , surin map , aranyaprathet map , cambodian lower border map ] [ northern thai map , chiangmai map , mae hong son map , chiangrai map , mae sai map ] [ nakhon sawn map , chai nat map , suphan buri map ] the blockade of libya ’ s oil facilities , initially driven by “ wage ” demands by former rebels in charge of protecting them , is now complicated by tribal factors .
the government ’ s powerlessness in responding to ibrahim al jadhran ( see opposite ) whose men have been blocking the es sider , ras lanuf , zuweitina and marsa al hariga oil terminals since the end of july , can be explained by the fact he belongs to the mgharba tribe . ( ... )
localarkansas ' most wantedcounty by countyfamily healthneighborhood crime trackerhastings trial coverageeducation in arkansaslocal politicsnewslinksgood day arkansas90 seconds in the kitchenclass actfeel good fridayfox16 sweet 16mug shotsstatepoliticstalk politicscandidate trackermost popularfamily healthbreast self examhealth newsrace for the curewhat 's going arounddonna 's grief blogof interestfascinating factsthis day in historyslideshowsenvironmental newshealth newsnews calendarsnews right nowstate newsnewslinksslideshowshastings trial coverage the content has been reported and it will be reviewed by a moderator .
copyright : material published in the intermountain commercial record , inc. online and in the foreclosure and notice of defaults reports is abstracted , compiled nad formatted at substantial expense for the sole and exclusive use of the subscriber and may not be copied republished or resold in any manner in whole or in part without the written consent in writing of the intermountain commercial record , inc ’ s publisher . any infringement will be subject to legal redress limited warranty / indemnity / limited liability : except for the express warranties stated herein , the intermountain commercial record , inc. disclaims all warranties including all implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose .
you understand and agree that your use of this web site and of any services or content provided ( the " service " ) is at your own risk .
services and content are provided to you " as is " , and the intermountain commercial record , inc. expressly disclaims all warranties of any kind , either implied or express , including but not limited to warranties of merchantability , fitness for a particular purpose , and non-infringement . ( b ) you will not impersonate or misrepresent your association with any person or entity ; you will not forge or otherwise seek to conceal or misrepresent the origin of any content provided by you ; simba and yanga fans dance during the tanzania breweries ' launch of ' nani mtani jembe ' in dar es salaam yesterday .
tanzania breweries limited has organised a dar es salaam derby between archrivals young africans and simba to be played at the national stadium on december 14 .
the match will be staged to boost the brewers ’ sales promotion campaign dubbed nani mtani jembe as confirmed by the brewers brand manager for the kilimanjaro beer george kavishe yesterday .
kavishe said the promotion nani mtani jembe aims at giving supporters of the two clubs the opportunity to finically familiarize to their teams .
kavishe declined disclose who will benefit from the proceeds of the game , saying discussions between the two clubs , tff and dar es salaam football committee ( drf ) is on going to sort out the issue .
lg to start producing flexible displays for smartphonesusa todaycoming soon : curved smartphones from lg and samsungtimehighly cited : lg confirms it 's making curved smartphone displaysthe vergein depth : firms balk at fresh investmentkorea timessee all 116 sourcesrelated smartphones skype for ios 7 looks great — it 's a shame about the other versionstime - by matt peckhamapple 's new ios software plagued by problemsdaily democratin depth : how to help ios 7 run faster on an older iphoneusa today - by rob pegorarosee all 100 sourcesrelated iphone a closer look at the iphone 5s and apple 's faulty sensorsitproportaliphone 5s sales the best in the us for all electronic devices in septemberkpopstarzsee all 66 sourcesrelated iphone 5 docomo blames limited stock of apple 's iphones for worst-ever subscriber lossapple insiderntt docomo loses record customers despite apple 's iphone offeringvaluewalk - by vikas shuklasee all 20 sourcesrelated ntt docomo president inaugurates two ambulance boats in rufiji na david kisanga president jakaya kikwete has inaugurated two ambulance boats valued at 122m / - donated by the ifakara health institute ( ihi ) to the rufiji municipal council to serve the villages of nyamisati and mbwera .
he pledged more government aid to ihi in an effort to improve healthcare in the country .
despite abdoulaye wade ’ s continued assertions that he is the parti democratique senegalais ’ ‘ only constant ’ , with the ex-president tucked away in exile in france the party is now in the grip of a succession war . ( ... )
the managing director of teranga gold corp and the man in charge of its relations ( ... )
the non-executive director of nordgold is keeping a close eye on the fall in the ( ... )
when rebels retire in indonesiatough times ahead for sri lanka ’ s northern provincial councilpreparing for mers virus ahead of hajj pilgrimagewill the climate change in warsaw ? analysis : idps return amid continuing insecurity in yemen ’ s war-torn abyan copyright © irin 2013 .
all rights reserved .
this material comes to you via irin , the humanitarian news and analysis service of the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs .
the opinions expressed do not necessarily reflect those of the united nations or its member states .
the boundaries , names and designations used on maps on this site and links to external sites do not imply official endorsement or acceptance by the un .
republication is subject to terms and conditions as set out in the irin copyright page.varia | cadran politic m-am gândit că ar fi interesant de citit un material legat de ceea ce înseamnă politica , mai mult într-o formă teoretică .
care sunt de fapt bazele pe care ar trebui să se deruleze actiunile politice , pentru că , dacă este vorba de practică , trebuie să recunoaştem că sunt mari diferenţe între aşteptări şi realitate .
datorită dezvoltării fără precedent a industriei farmaceutice şi a forţei sale economice , medicina actuală trece prea uşor peste valoarea terapeutică a alimentelor naturale , deşi însuşi hipocrat , părintele medicinii europene , spunea : & # 8220 ; hrana pe care o mănânci să-ţi fie medicament & # 8221 ; .
încă de la începutul anilor & # 8220 ; 80 , aşa cum recunosc şi organizaţia mondială a sănătaţii ...
sub patronajul american college of chest physicians ( accp ) şi societatea română de pneumologie ( srp ) la iaşi în perioada 20-22 mai 2010 va avea loc întâlnirea educaţională cu tema : “ actualităţi privind reabilitarea pulmonară şi ventilaţia mecanică la domiciliu ” , care va beneficia de prezenţa unor renumiţi specialişti străini ca speakeri şi participanţi .
printre organizatorii ...
în timp ce preocuparea româniei relativă la chestiuni extrateritoriale precum situaţia provinciilor kossovo şi transnistria , respectiv statusul militar autohton în irak , este extrem de manifestă , neglijarea ( volitivă sau doar aparentă ) a desfăşurătorului politic intrateritorial se dovedeşte similar de manifestă .
nejustificat de manifestă .
formarea unor grupuri regionale pe baza intereselor comune ale politicienilor din anumite zone ale româniei a devenit o modă în toate formaţiunile politice .
acest fenomen este extrem de vizibil în transilvania .
grupurile formale sau informale din interiorul partidelor urmăresc să conserve puterea unora dintre lideri sau să le ofere acestora forţă în negocierile cu conducerea centrală a ...
soluţia tot mai des vehiculată a salvării româniei din criză este promovarea turismului şi atragerea de investitori în domeniu .
în timp ce politicienii îşi bat capul pe la diverse simpozioane internaţionale , drumurile se fac praf , iar vechea structură pe care s-a clădit cândva turismul ajunge încet , dar sigur o ruină .
o serie de oameni de afaceri investesc în fotbal tocmai pentru a obţine vizibilitate .
cazurile ex-vicepremierului george copos şi cel al preşedintelui png , george becali , sunt cele mai notorii în acest sens .
la cluj însă lucrurile se petrec pe dos .
o serie de oameni de afaceri cu vizibilitate mare au ales să investească în fotbal ca să facă bani .
unii dintre ei au reuşit .
alţii s-au ...
lumea politică a clujului a fost zguduită de o serie de scandaluri legate de concesiuni ilegale de terenuri .
partidul cel mai puternic lovit a fost psd .
protipentada psd a beneficiat de atribuirea unor loturi generoase de teren în staţiunea beliş din munţii apuseni , la preţuri extrem de mici .
pe listele beneficiarilor concesiunii ...
când se vorbeşte despre târgu mureş , în general , oamenii se gândesc la un oraş cu aspect occidental şi multe femei frumoase .
când oamenii de afaceri vorbesc despre oraşul de pe mureş , se gândesc la lipsa de siguranţă a investiţiei lor din cauza întâmplărilor de acum 16 ani .
dacă se poate numi întâmplare acea ieşire aproape inumană a unora împotriva altora .
anul 2006 se anunţă cumplit pentru mai bine de 90 la sută din ţărani .
potrivit noului buget al ministerului agriculturii , nivelul subvenţiilor acordate agriculturii se reduce la 30 la sută , iar modalitatea de acordare a sprijinului de stat devine una extrem de ciudată .
practic , statul va subvenţiona modest doar viile , legumele şi livezile , plus câteva culturi care nu se mai cultivă de ... © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress & ldquo ; & hellip ; because most of us are not aware of energy issues or climate change and its effects & rdquo ; mogendi said .
homehomehot topics ( 4 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americasouth americasouth americaargentinaboliviabrazilchilecolombiaecuadorfalkland islandsperuuruguayvenezuelauruguaysport you may use these html tags and attributes : < a href = " " title = " " > < abbr title = " " > < acronym title = " " > < b > < blockquote cite = " " > < cite > < code > < del datetime = " " > < em > < i > < q cite = " " > < strike > < strong > calgary web design by media dog productionsbars , girls gogo , & fun and in pattaya many on our books at present .
pattaya is a haven for short time sex and theres fee to stay with you.-- costs without drinks = 1000 baht upwards .
try the butterfly bars or go to soi yadsak as this are pattayaland soi 2 which is predominantly owned by an american investor try the g spot bar with lots of girls right opposit the favoiurite drinking hole of bruce allport & english paul 's " jack & tars " which is my favourite and a good bunch of expats drinkers and regulars like english peter .
[ pattaya buffets ] [ pattaya foodland prices ] [ pattaya food places ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya best seafood restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2008 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] to exporters list ] [ container cost ] [ shipping to usa ] [ shipping personal items ] [ shipping no parts or parts of this website may be copied , printed or circulated for trading post co ltd by way of contract .
all infringements will be an infringement of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see try another request or click here to search for all pages on see the faqs for more info and help , or contact us .
but wasn ’ t their plan to make the budget a vehicle for defunding president obama ’ s health care legislation doomed from the start ?
and even if this small band has the backing of voters in their safely drawn “ red ” districts , as well as tea party support , haven ’ t their unyielding tactics antagonized a majority of the public ?
in fact , this minority faction — the “ suicide caucus , ” as the conservative columnist charles krauthammer has called it — may be less shortsighted and self-defeating than it appears .
at a time when so many officials in both parties still invoke the virtues of compromise and perpetuate the ideal of common ground on which “ conservative pragmatists ” can meet “ moderate democrats , ” these more combative republicans may be in the vanguard of a new post-consensus politics .
to this constituency , the republican who will go as far as he can — taking one last crack at undoing mr. obama ’ s health care reform or voting later this month not to raise the debt ceiling — is not an obstructionist but a politician of principle , a rebel with a cause. if fishing was not discontinued .
canada has been worried about the overfishing geese on their annual migration , by imprinting the chicks on the aircraft. not seen in alaskan waters but the summer 's warmer-than-usual temperature a type of arctic sandpiper , has been dying off in " astounding numbers " ask us for small quantities under 1cbm .
all our terms are lof c or tt transfer before products to the uk & eu & usa have quotas which you must pay for before polyester etc & are levied per each on top of the quoted buying price .
we reserve the right to change quotations if shipping / government loads only in thailand .
let us do the work for you chillie bins & ice boxes , coolers with new designs just out july you have your own cgi bin form & all inquiries go back direct to you .
as websites for inquiries & how to start .
if you want us to source and quality control right to shipping your goods we handle everything as we now have our own [ types of ice boxes , chillie bins , coolers for hot and cold applications site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeo gestión social | avn dan inicio a programas para la socialización bancaria de la juventudel ministro para la juventud , héctor rodríguez. dio inicio este lunes a programas que tienen como propósito la socialización bancaria para la juventud que podrá optar a ... mercal obrero llegará a educadores venezolanos en noviembreel presidente del sindicato nacional fuerza unitaria magisterial , orlando pérez , precisó que este programa social se iniciará en miranda y el distrito capitalministro rodríguez : el pueblo organizado será el gran guardabosques de venezuela " hay un cambio de paradigma en venezuela en cuanto al cuidado y preservación del ambiente y eso hay que decírselo al país , porque se está comprometiendo e ...
dan inicio a programas para la socialización bancaria de la juventud ministro rodríguez : el pueblo organizado será el gran guardabosques de venezuela lluvias dispersas en el oriente y sur del país este domingo el distrito capital se mantendrá durante el día con un cielo parcialmente nublado y una temperatura entre 32º y 21º defensores de los animales marchan en caracas en día de san francisco de asís este viernes 4 de octubre , cuando se conmemora el día de san francisco de asís , patrono de los animales y los ecologistas , defensores de la fauna realizarán una marcha en caracas , que partirá desde parque carabobo hasta la asamblea nacional ( an ) debatirán sobre mundialización capitalista y crisis sistemática en escuela de planificación este lunes se llevará a la cabo la conferencia mundialización capitalista y crisis sistemática .
construir la alternativa socialista ¡ aquí y ahora ! , en la escuela venezolana de planificación , ubicada en la rinconada venezuela duplicó aporte de las telecomunicaciones al pib durante revolución bolivariana el ministro para ciencia , tecnología e innovación , manuel fernández , destacó este jueves que en 14 años de revolución bolivariana , el sector de telecomunicaciones duplicó su aporte al producto interno bruto ( pib ) chávez es la fuerza natural que se proyecta hacia el futuro el español de venezuela nunca figuró en los textos escolares criollos continúan estudios de restos óseos exhumados en la carraca que pudieran pertenecer a miranda lunes parcialmente nublado y con lluvias dispersas en el oriente y sur del país are you looking for flood , drought , earthquake or storm information ?
costa del sol newscosta blanca newsaxarquia - malaga east newscosta del almeria newsmallorca newsproperties in spain costa del solcosta blanca northcosta blanca southaxarquiacosta de almeriamallorcaspanish newsgibraltar musicphotographyshoppingtravelmotoringbloggingsportsbooks and literaturecharitysettling in spainhouse and homeliving in spainreligionsubmitting content leapy leepeter fieldmannora johnsonfia tarrantvicki mcleodmike walshstephen amoretony matthewsdavid danceycharities cornerric polanskyguest columnistbenny davistraveljim collinsnorman macleodcollin hallcraig irelandchris marshallsuzanne mannersulrica marshalljack gaionilaura pennjane plunkettdavid searlrichard shanleynick snellingclodagh and dick handscombeana jefferson-smithcassandra nashsally trotman film reviewrestaurantslifestyle ewn technologyshoppingbusiness ewnbook reviewhealth and beautyconnie 's pet cornerpets your letterstestimonialsjust fancy that ! gardeningdavid the dogmanpuzzles and gamesvideo newsadvertising featuremotoringmaddocks ' view on lifestreet talk costa blanca northcosta blanca southcosta del solcosta de almeriaaxarquia - malaga eastmallorca albox town hall has taken down the last franco related plaque that remained in the town .
it was located on a residential building in the neighbourhood of la loma .
with the removal of the plaque albox town hall has complied with the law of historical memory , which obliges the government & # 8230 ; febronia kitundu from hombolo in dodoma applauded tma for the initiative .
he said farmers in his region are now much happier with their out put and potential income .
below is a sample issue of our e-edition .
to view the current e-edition of the newspaper , you need to log in as an e-edition subscriber .
if you 're not currently a subscriber to the e-edition , you can subscribe now !
tip : click on the article you are interested in to bring up an easy-to-read format , or scan through the issue by clicking on the arrows to the side of the page .
for a foreigner take a thai with you but check if nice paint the car hasn 't been filled with plastibond .
if new grill etc check for signs of a repaint .
even ask to put thru a test at b = quik or auto care if you think the underneath needs new ball joints etc. and always check for leaks and if the oil has been changed .
make sure the reg book shows both the numbers for chassis and engine and are correct .
paint jobs are cheap in thailand as are body work .
make sure battery not too old but batteries too are cheap 1000 baht upwards and look at the clutch fluid etc heights .
if low then check underneath the car for tell tale signs or leaks .
if you have a mechanic friend to go over with you even better .
just remember cars are dear in thailand and theres many to choose from so always ask for a discount. make sure the spare tyre is ok and you have jack and wheel , brace .
you can even buy a thai car mag in any bookshop so then you get a feeling for the price you want to pay for .
have change of ownership form with you and power of attorney so your thai friend can do the change over .
basically if biying used cars take to b quik or auto care as these guys go over every car with a report .
parts for popular cars are cheap. eg isuzu pickups are the best unless you want a vigo but 3 lutre vigos are juicy on the gas .
parts for isuzuis are really cheap and the gold top motor is the best motor if looking at pickups .
watch out when you hire a motorcycle in pattaya as the old scams of renting you a bike then stealing it back off you .
only hire from a hotel you are staying at or reputable hirage place and carry your own chain or lock if you have not gota good lockup .
if stolen they will want the equivalent of what the bike is worth so be careful .
this is an old scam thats back in vogue again and some police are even involved as in may 2009 a policeman from lumpini branch was arrested stealing bikes as his income was too low.also many books or reg tabians have been copied so be careful buying bikes , take our advice and use auto care or b quik garages as these are the best in thailand .
[ more help on buying and car repairs in thailand ] [ non immigrant visas ] [ lawyer costs & services ] [ visas ] [ re-entry visa ] [ work permits ] [ companies ] [ limited partnerships ] [ tourist visas ] [ residency visa ] [ 1 year visa ] [ thai license ] [ company tax ] [ income tax ] [ company vat ] [ read expats newsboard ] [ visa costs ] [ visa checkpoint emails ] xtra cab ] [ cars ] [ our shipping services ] [ shipping info ] [ uk freight clearance agent ] bangkok highways and expressways : [ bangna highway ] [ pattaya highway7 to nakhon nayok ] [ overhead highwayto bangna ] go to [ truck & bus tyres : recaps ] [ truck & bus tyres : recaps ] [ truck & bus tyres r1 : used no recap ] [ truck & bus tyres : shipping ] [ truck & bus cost & sizes ] more [ charcoal pics ] [ charcoal grades , sizes ] [ charcoal grade 2 , sizes ] [ charcoal shipping ] products ] [ new condos chiangmai ] place your banner on our website & get more hits add your banner to our website : usu football star chuckie keeton out for remainder of season sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 27 pm edt food stamps in utah valley ?
its one complicated issue sun oct 6 , 2013 3 : 27 pm edt food stamps in utah valley ?
its complicated sun oct 6 , 2013 1 : 27 pm edt essay : it is awful to go to the grocery store and use food stamps sun oct 6 , 2013 1 : 27 pm edt ’ ordain women ’ group not allowed in priesthood conference sun oct 6 , 2013 1 : 27 pm edt remembering comebacks , and their achitects sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 27 pm edt coping with the government shutdown in a town dependent on tourism sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 27 pm edt candlelight vigil held for toddler who died in crash mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 27 am edt city of springdale copes with zion shutdown sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 27 pm edt hand-written bible collection on display at byu mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 27 am edt another conference session comes to a close for the lds church sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 27 pm edt bountiful family fundraising for son ’ s funeral costs sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 27 pm edt chuckie keeton out for season with knee injury sat oct 5 , 2013 9 : 27 pm edt china slammed by typhoon mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 27 am edt person-2-person : marissa powell sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 27 pm edt crowds run through downtown slc in their skivvies sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 27 pm edt what will it cost to clean utahs air ?
mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 27 am edt the frost is already on a lot of utah pumpkins sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 27 pm edt the frost is already on a lot of utah punkins sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 27 pm edt leaders say mormons cannot condone same-sex marriage sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 27 pm edt ’ occupy zion ’ protest held at national park sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 27 am edt pushing the limits in marathon sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 27 am edt lds conference notebook sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 27 am edt as a cheapskate with an enormous appetite , maximizing value in such matters was critical .
i picked up a job with sun media corp. and did a little freelancing on the side , but the income was not enough to keep up with steadily growing family expenses .
however , i did not get past # 23 on the list because i had too much work on my plate from the top companies .
they 've emptied out a 757 to take you to exotic lands swaziland : will swaziland become a bhutan or a nepal ?
let the debate ...
homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificasiaafghanistanarmeniaazerbaijanbangladeshbhutanburmacambodiacentral asiachagos islandschinaeast timorhong kongindiaindonesiajapankashmirkazakhstankoreakurdistanmalaysianepalmongolianorth koreapakistanphilippinessingaporesri lankathailandtaiwantibetturkeyvietnam sesame street characters elmo and cookie monster are to appear in a new cbeebies tv show 16 : 07 7-oct-13 they 've emptied out a 757 to take you to exotic landsthe street 12 : 01 3-oct-13 simba striker betram mombeki jumps high as michael pius of ruvu shooting stops his move when the teams met in a mainland premier league match at the national stadium in dar es salaam yesterday photo : selemani mpochi amis tambwe levelled for the msimbazi street side in the 51st minute through a penalty .
the referee had awarded a penalty kick to simba when george michael fouled betram mwombeki in the danger zone .
the newly-promoted mbeya city pipped jkt oljoro with the same margin in another premier league tie in arusha. law service " .
we offer foreigners and expats that little bit we offer all foreigners our free litigation advice service .
if you have a problem then ask us for free .
this is the only service in thailand that offers you for free .
we aim to help expats and save you money. lawyers for overseas compnaies wishing to set up in thailand .
our speaking so you understand what is needed to retain a good accountant .
please email us or go to may not include govt fees but please ask us .
changes may occur due to charges may change in the course of our work due to govt or law changes occurring costs & services ] [ visas ] [ re-entry visa ] [ work [ thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms ] [ hedge funds ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] [ investment property guide ] [ borrowing money ] [ using thai company to hold property ] [ best option for foreigners buying ] furloughed workers at falls airbase to return on monday mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt battle of the great pumpkins in clarence sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 21 pm edt brian moorman returns to buffalo sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 21 pm edt vets plan trip to dc despite shutdown sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 21 am edt school districts ranked by affluence sat oct 5 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt kohler youth center offers events for all sat oct 5 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt business owners can sometimes get too caught up in the day-to-day crush to do a good job of looking for capital .
let it be known that grofin is now geared to support big investors who are looking for debt or equity , and regardless of how far along they are in their business , the process can be exhausting .
indeed worth nothing that and while phone systems are fairly easily to replace , a mistake with a debt or equity round can be devastating .
are blood clots after surgery a sign of hospital quality ? reutersacs : surveillance bias noted in vte measurementdoctors loungesee realtime coveragesee all 5 sourcesrelated hospital flu shot clinics scheduledyour houston newsindian scientist-led team set to develop universal flu vaccinetimes of indiasee all 101 sourcesrelated influenza vaccine universal use of gloves and gowns reduces mrsa but not vrefiercehealthcaregloves and gowns do not protect against mrsa or vre , study showsmedical news todayhighly cited : icu gloves and gowns might reduce mrsa infection , study saysu.s. news & world reportsee all 24 sourcesrelated methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus pit bull adoptions increase as suburbanites consider a dog they previously ignored mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 15 am edt learning to run again mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 15 am edt dobelle maintains he followed policy mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt bengals end bradys td streak , beat patriots 13-6 sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 15 pm edt red sox take 2-game lead in alds sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 15 pm edt red sox broadcasters son due in court in killing sun oct 6 , 2013 1 : 15 pm edt daily talker : do you think its right to punish students for watching an inappropriate video ?
mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 15 am edt how to master comparison shopping mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt remy ’ s son due in court in killing sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 15 pm edt concert hall at norwell ’ s james library gets a makeover mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt abington man stabbed in bridgewater ; three charged sun oct 6 , 2013 3 : 15 pm edt missing newton teen ’ s body found in natick mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt gannon operation plans in limbo mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt southcoast bets on short-term shutdown thu oct 3 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt bay state readies for launch of affordable care act tue oct 1 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt making your own applesauce mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt photo : sunlight in the trees sat oct 5 , 2013 5 : 15 pm edt sites for new williamstown police station named sat oct 5 , 2013 03 : 15 am edt " it was easy for me to get behind this as an individual rights issue , and as an economic development opportunity , " said holtzclaw , a republican .
he noted that many craft brewers started out brewing at home .
“ rather than see it as threat , ( craft brewers ) see it as a way for folks who are really serious to leave the hobby realm and move over to the professional realm , " he said .
koch ’ s advice to state lawmakers is to give home brewers the benefit of the doubt while putting reasonable safeguards in place : “ home brewers have an enormous amount of respect for the dignity of beer , so cut them a little slack , ” he said .
“ with the housing market picking up again , ” said ray rasker , a wildfire expert at headwaters economics , a nonpartisan montana-based think tank , “ we ’ re going to see more people building in the fire zones , and the u.s. taxpayers are going to pay for it . ”
burton of the university of colorado doesn ’ t mince words when he talks about responsibility in the wui .
when wildfires threaten homes but not lives , he says a firefighting crew ’ s best option is simple : “ just let it burn . ” 5.rosneft : us shale gas no threat to russia & # 8217 ; s energy dominance 16.will the paralympic games help russia improve its facilities for the disabled ?
homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasterneastern europeeastern europebelarusbulgariaczech republicgeorgiahungarymoldovapolandromaniarussiaslovakiaukrainerussiaeconomypoliticselectionscorruptionsportchechnyaanti-government protestsnorth caucasus unrest if the facebook pop-up does not appear automatically , please click here to try again.privacy policy | customer centerlive helpminimizecloseneed assistance ?
our system of campaign finance " distorts and destroys the intended dependence the framers gave us " by calling on a " tiny slice of america " to raise campaign funds .
the closer the money comes to the hands of members of congress , the greater the danger of corruption and undue influence of big donors .
bicester foodbank has been shortlisted for the lloyds bank community fund 2013 .
video , linny boyette , linny boyette death , linny boyette died , linny boyette today , today linny boyette , he had been sick recently , and did not make it to " today " last week .
he was in his early 70s , according to the show .
homehomehot topics ( 4 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificcaribbeancaribbeanbahamasbarbadoscubadominican republichaitijamaicapuerto ricojamaicasport uclg delegations applaud kuwait " s support of growth and development worldwide homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 179 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificmiddle eastmiddle eastpersian gulf statesbahrainiraniraqisraeljordankuwaitlebanonomanpalestineqatarsaudi arabiasyriaunited arab emiratesyemenkuwaitoilsport as the old belizean adage states , " ... pick sense from di nonsense ! "
correct me if i am wrong , but did the minister of immigration say , " we cannot refuse people entry into the country ... " ?
when last i checked , the immigration department is vested with the authority and wherewithal to do precisely that .
of course , it must be as a result of matters or circumstances that are deemed to be in contravention to our laws and statues .
so therefore , i pose the question ' when has cabinet ever been hesitant to make decisions , to accommodate what they deem as fit ? '
let 's be real .
is it not time for belizeans to provide a definitive expression of their discontent with the lacklustre and purely wretched manner of " leadership " to which we have subjected ourselves ?
you can easily unsubscribe at any time by following the instructions included in every message .
be one of the first to know when a contest is announced on fox16.com.
remember : you can unsubscribe at any time by following the instructions provided in every message .
intu bets on spanish recovery as it splashes out on shopping mall case against paralympian fraudsters dropped as man behind scam is fined waze for windows phone isn & # 8217 ; t cancelled , but has no eta on the ...
sinopec , temasek interested in repsol & # 8217 ; s stake in natural gas fenosa santander may buy stake in el corte ingl & # 233 ; s finance operations spain 's santander to buy 51 percent of el corte ingles finance arm santander to buy 51 % of el corte ingles consumer finance unit spain 's santander to buy 51 pct of el corte ingles finance arm homehomehot topics ( 4 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasternwestern europewestern europealbaniaaustriabelgiumcroatiacyprusfrancegermanygibraltargreeceitalykosovomacedoniamaltamontenegronetherlandsportugalrepublic of irelandserbiasloveniaspainswitzerlandunited kingdombalkansspaineconomypoliticssport sarkozy has largely stayed out of the limelight since his defeat to francois hollande , but since the start of the year has fanned speculation that he is mulling a re-election bid .
home | about | search | site map | blog | discussnational news oregon ’ s september unemployment rate was ? ? ?
fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 24 pm edt ceo pay : the nitty gritty on average-worker-pay fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 24 pm edt ferguson wellman ’ s new option for generations x , y fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 24 pm edt sex ed ?
uo ’ s ’ sexpositive ’ is the app for that fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 24 pm edt man hit by suv in se portland dies at hospital sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 24 pm edt corvallis schools put ipads on hold sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 24 pm edt man struck by car in se portland crosswalk dies sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 24 pm edt suspect robs keizer man at gunpoint , forces him to cash check sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 24 pm edt giant pumpkins weigh in at woodburn farm sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 24 pm edt giant pumpkins tip the scales at woodburn farm sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 24 pm edt suspect carjacks man in happy valley at knifpoint sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 24 pm edt kerry assures ceos on us role in asia-pacific mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt ny probes rights sold to ’ world trade center ’ mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt gov ’ t shutdown enters 2nd week , no end in sight mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 24 am edt bp trial to focus on scientists ’ spill estimates sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 24 pm edt united technologies cancels planned furlough sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 24 pm edt ’ gravity ’ soars to top of weekend box office sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 24 pm edt tardy fine slapped on late parents fri oct 23 , 2009 12 : 24 pm edt sinking section of eastbank esplanade closed for repairs mon nov 9 , 2009 4 : 24 pm est carjacking complicated by child locks mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 24 am edt ’ four rules ’ for star wars episode 7 mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 24 am edt police arrest longview man on accusations of armed robbery sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 24 pm edt you got the nerve to fly my american flag , but coward in the shadow of syria , but have the nerve to fly red , white , and blue .
we are the protectors of israel and we are the world 's police like it or not .... we kick ass and cross of names .... we will make a pot hole out of that hell hole , and deal with the rebels too .
i am true red white and blue .... b easy .
what about the prophecies of nostradamus and the end of the mayan calendar ?
there was talk of 2012 being the end of the world .
here are some bible verses that shed some light on what we can expect and the signs of the end of the world .
and this gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all nations , and then the end will come . * its funny to me how all of the armchair politicians have so much to say about our president and this government .
syria has used chemical weapons on civilians they need to be dealt with. someone has to have the courage to stand up and take action .
i am proud to have obama as our leader .
attorneys : subscribe to the intermountain commercial and receive one free copy of the utah professionals tamwa tabled its recommendation to the constitutional review committee in january .
among its recommendations was for the new constitution to ensure an end to customs , traditions and laws that give room for the perpetuation of gender based violence in the country .
no drones stationed in curacao or aruba , says us consulate aruba to host international conference on combating and preventing crime 17.capital journal : why democrats are dug in on budget impasse 23.ohio may be next state to ban gay conversion therapy 24.why is it so hard to be an ethical parent ? 32.obamacare recedes as gop attention turns to entitlements , tax code homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificnorth americanorth americacanadausamexicousabarack obamaeconomybank regulationhealthcare reformpolitics ( us ) politics blogs ( us ) top storiesbaltimore , marylandworldu.s.businesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthspotlighttop storiesbaltimore , marylandworldu.s.businesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthspotlightbaltimore , marylandrevamped dundalk high gets new buildingbaltimore sun2 hours agowritten byliz bowiecaitlin st. lawrence , left , and kortney adams , right , in a cosmetology class in the sollers point technical h.s. area of the school.related : dundalk four nonprofits receive $ 37.5m in grants to support local projectswbal radiobaltimore non profits get $ 3.75m in grantsfox baltimoresee all 4 sourcesrelated baltimore the only way to grasp the impact of the nsa surveillance program is to see it as a wholesale repeal of the fourth amendment .
the only way to grasp the impact of the nsa surveillance program is to see it as a wholesale repeal of the fourth amendment .
mkutano wa tathimini ya uchumi wa afrika kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 if you would like to contact us about a local touch with one of our telesales representatives by clicking here .
retour des rivalités ethniques au burundi sur fond de conflits fonciers retour des rivalités ethniques au burundi sur fond de conflits à qui appartient cette terre ?
c 'est la question à laquelle la cntb au burundi doit répondre quand le propriétaire , chassé par la guerre , rentre au c ’ est une épine sur le chemin de la réconciliation au burundi .
la recrudescence des conflits fonciers nés du rapatriement des réfugiés hutus .
durant les années de crise , et au cours des différentes guerres interethniques qu ’ a connues le pays , près de 700 000 burundais hutus ont fui pour se réfugier à l ’ étranger .
depuis 2002 , une grande partie d ’ entre eux a été rapatriée .
mais à leur retour , les terres ou maisons qu ’ ils possédaient étaient occupées .
pour la première fois depuis des années , un quartier de la capitale du burundi a été la scène d ’ émeutes aux relents ethniques à l ’ occasion de la restitution d 'une maison à une famille hutue spoliée il y a 40 ans .
cela s 'est passé le mardi 28 mai .
en charge de la résolution de ces conflits : la commission nationale des terres et autres biens ( cntb ) .
son rôle : régler les la plupart des litiges concernent des familles qui ont fui le pays en 1972 , il y a plus de 40 ans .
sur 30 000 dossiers enregistrés , la cntb revendique 22 000 cas réglés , dont plus de 60 & percnt à l ’ amiable .
mais elle est controversée : une partie de l ’ opinion publique l ’ accuse de raviver les tensions ethniques en privilégiant les rapatriés hutus dans ses décisions , sans tenir compte de l ’ éventuelle bonne foi des nouveaux occupants .
car qu 'ils soient tutsi ou hutus , ils ont parfois acquis leur bien en toute légalité et ne reçoivent aucune le gouvernement semble avoir pris la mesure du malaise et envisagerait une réforme du système .
d ’ autant que jusqu ’ à présent , la commission s 'est concentrée sur les conflits concernant les parcelles de terre , jugés les plus urgents .
mais près de 200 000 autres plaintes sont encore en attente .
elles concernent des maisons , des voitures ou comptes en banque .
un vaste chantier de nature , craignent certains , à saper un processus de réconciliation déjà bien mal en here is the tweet from cruz that led kessler to go on the attack : i am a current subscriber and need to register on investors.com.
i am not a current subscriber and want to register for free membership on investors.com. argentinaargentineargentinianbain capitalbarack obamaboehnerboliviabudgetcbocfkclintoncnncongresscristina fernandezcristina fernandez kirchnercristina kirchnerdebt ceilingdeficiteconomyedward snowdenelectionemployer mandateemploymententitlementsevo moralesfiscal cliffgang of eight bill hiring incentivehealth careimmigrationinflationinternetjobsla presidentalive-tweetsmainstream media reporting on immigration reformmediamedicaremitt romneyobamaobamacareoccupy wall streetohioonline sales taxowspennsylvaniaphysiciansrepublicansromneyryansequestersocial securityspendingstate governmentsstockssustainable growth ratetaxestaxesthomas sowelltoo much malbectwitterunionswages malala attack : ' then he fired straight at her 'bbc newsmalala yousafzai brings fear and loathing to her home towntelegraph.co.uk - by rob crillyhighly cited : malala yousafzai : the bravest girl in the worldparadefrom pakistan : family thought malala will not survive taliban bulletthe news internationalsee all 294 sourcesrelated malala yousafzai greek ex-minister jailed for 20 years for graftthe advocatewikipedia : akis tsochatzopoulossee all 41 sourcesrelated akis tsochatzopoulos lundy convictions quashedotago daily timeswikipedia : lundy murderssee all 67 sourcesrelated new zealand & # 8216 ; us airspace denial for maduro is payback for offering asylum to snowden & # 8217 ; homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 220 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificcaribbeancaribbeanbahamasbarbadoscubadominican republichaitijamaicapuerto ricopuerto ricosport considerat o somitate în unele cercuri ale oamenilor de știință , contestat abitir în altele , respectat și adulat de elevii săi , detestat și acuzat fără rețineri de oponenți , e o legedă vie , pe care el însuși o gestionează cu precizie de maestru , astfel încât chiar și cei care nu îl plac se văd nevoiți să recunoască că este cel puțin o figură interesantă .
știe să treacă ...
calea spre „ mecca ” resurselor energetice – strategii , provocări de securitate și demersuri diplomatice ( ii ) și pentru că tocmai am vorbit despre republicile islamice ruse din caucaz … spuneți-ne , considerați că în caucazul de nord a fost o strategie greșită a kremlinului de a transfera o justificare motivată religios și cu implicații globale ( dacă vorbim de războiul împotriva terorismului practicat de grupările radicale ale fundamentalismului islamic ) unui conflict etnic cu rădăcini istorice ?
calea spre « mecca » resurselor energetice – strategii , provocări de securitate și demersuri diplomatice ( i ) vă propunem o interesantă și amănunțită radiografie a regiunii caucaz , un spațiu cu o miză uriașă datorită resurselor energetice , de unde și multitudinea de strategii geopolitice , provocări de securitate și mutări politice și economice vizibile sau discrete care pot scăpa uneori și unui ochi avizat .
interlocutor în acest pelerinaj analitic ne-a fost prof. univ. dr ....
un adevărat român & # 8211 ; interviu cu asr prinţul paul al româniei alteţa sa regală , prinţul paul al româniei este fiu al asr carol mircea al româniei şi al helenei henriette nagavitzine , nepot pe linie paternă al regelui carol al ii-lea al româniei .
este căsătorit cu prinţesa lia şi au împreună un băiat , carol ferdinand , primul descendent regal născut în românia în ultimii 90 de ani .
valea timocului este o zonă în care românii au continuitate încă de la ocupaţia romană interviu cu domnul tiberius puiu tiberius puiu este publicist şi traducător , membru al societăţii române de balcanistică şi slavistică şi al asociaţiei de studii scandinave şi baltice .
este autorul cărţii „ ucraina şi ucrainenii ” în care este prezentată în mod obiectiv istoria ucrainei , precum şi tema holodomorului , marea foamete din 1933 .
a fost distins cu o diplomă de onoare a uniunii scriitorilor din ucraina .... „ venitul unui medic ar trebui să fie de trei ori mai mare decât venitul mediu pe economie “ interviu cu prof. univ. dr mircea cinteză prof. univ. dr .
mircea cinteză , cu o vastă experienţă şi renume în specialitatea cardiologie , este profesor de cardiologie şi medicină internă la catedra de cardiologie şi medicină internă a universităţii de medicină şi farmacie „ carol davila ” , bucureşti ; şeful secţiei de cardiologie a spitalului universitar de urgenţă , bucureşti ; din 1996 este membru al consiliului profesoral ...
usl va lansa un program de microindustrializare interviu cu domnul deputat constantin niţă , vicepreşedinte psd şi preşedintele psd judeţul braşov domnule deputat constantin niţă , credeţi că ar fi oportună reînfiinţarea unui minister pentru imm ?
pentru imm-uri nu este funda ­ men ­ tală existenţa unui minister dedicat , cât mai degrabă existenţa unui cadru legislativ şi fiscal propice dezvoltării mediului de afaceri .
în ultimii ani , acest lucru nu s-a întâmplat , iar statisticile arată o cifră alarmantă în ceea ce priveşte numărul ...
un subiect la ordinea zilei – scutul american antirachetă , care urmează a fi amplasat în europa .
doi interlocutori , cu opinii complementare .
şi un brainstorming , cu luciri de capă şi spadă . „ reducerea cheltuielilor bugetare în detrimentul bugetelor de apărare este o opțiune greșită ” & # 8211 ; norica nicolai „ reducerea cheltuielilor bugetare în detrimentul bugetelor de apărare este o opțiune greșită ” – atenționează europarlamentarul norica nicolai & # 8211 ; vicepreședinte al subcomisiei pentru securitate și apărare din cadrul comisiei pentru afaceri externe a pe , membru al delegației comisiei parlamentare de cooperare ue-rusia - it announces a hot autumn in moscow ?
or is it just an illusion due to electoral strategies very vocal and of course the media accompaniment ? © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress caribbean news now ! : rss feeds our rss feeds are free and we currently use rss 2.0 .
click on the icon of the content category ( ies ) you 're interested in subscribing to , and follow the instructions to add to your news reader or your personal my yahoo ! or my aol page .
homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificafricaalgeriaangolaburundidr congoegyptethiopiaghanaguinea-bissauivory coastkenyaliberialibyamadagascarmalimauritiusmoroccomozambiquenamibianigernigeriarwandasomaliasouth africasouth sudansudantunisiaugandazambiazimbabwe sudans on edge , disputed abyei in the middlethe east african 18 : 33 5-oct-13 juba university lecturers threaten to strike as gov 't averts the situationallafrica 07 : 39 6-oct-13 june and early july can be the best time to see multiple blue sharks and we start off a bit chilly ( low 60 's ) in june , but warm quite nicely by july .
june is also an excellent time to visit montauk glauca ) , one of the prettiest of the world & # 8217 ; s sharks in the open montauk is sometimes referred to as the fisherman & # 8217 ; s capitol of bluefish and other sport fish abounding in its waters .
in addition quickly made our way to the general location and began releasing a on the immediate area to happily snatch an easy meal .
quickly , we suited up and within a few minutes we had forsaken nibble on our protective cage and at the same time , make a few sharks swam within inches of our cameras , and we could observe up close the nictitating membrane as it would reflexively close and the expedition was a huge success .
as we cruised back into montauk harbor , the sun finally poking through the low overcast , we were thrilled to have shared the ocean with one of its most among the creatures you could see on this type of adventure .
the trips are 8-12 hours long , so come prepared for a full day on the diving begins to cover the procedure and to acclimate divers to the cage if you are not certified .
the cage floats on the surface with a maximum along for the ride to enjoy all the sights and sounds above the surface .
although being in the water and meeting a shark face to face is the idene - the idene was a 120 ' steel hulled fishing trawler sunk as an artificial reef by the state of r.i. in 1991 .
the wreck sits but should only be done by qualified divers .
the top of idene can be reached at in 1939 .
today the wreck is unrecognizable as a ship , but still offers an island lies one of the most interesting dives in new england .
the submarine was depth charged on may 6th , 1945 .
the wreck is a must see for the enterprising deep diver .
though the sub is upright and intact , penetration is possible but should be considered dangerous do to the possibility of decaying wreckage .
the wreck is easy to navigate and a all divers are required to sign a waiver and release ofliability , you will need a lot of weight if using a drysuit. are secured to the inside of the cage .
regulators are attached to anodized aluminum pipe and is fully welded at all seams. into the cages top hatch .
once inside , the hatch is closed and sea turtle is a 36 ' bhm downeast style boat .
she is powered by a expeditions and can be made by contacting us through our participates do not have to be certified to cage dive. mailing list and we will email you if anything changes in our divers to the cage if you are not certified .
the cage floats on the surface with you , as a diver should be able to enter and exit the cages on your own .
example : can you easily climb in and out of a swimming pool without the use of stairs or a ladder ?
you should be in reasonably physically fit frequent access to medical facilities you may not be eligible to if a diver chooses not to go out and the tour was not canceled that constitutes a no show and the cost of the trip is safety of the passengers will be decided by the captain at the dock .
every attempt will be made by the expedition company to reschedule divers in the event the captain cancels the trip due to bad weather and / or unsafe sea dive boat cannot be held responsible for bad weather , if a diver chooses not to go out and the tour was not canceled that by the crew for the duration of the trip .
zero tolerance policy is enforced .
no illegal substances will be permitted on the boat .
a waiver and release of diver on each trip .
the crew will log you in and out of the water and will assist you in any way possible , but you are solely responsible for your recommendations for lodging in the montauk area and lots more !
tajikistan eu and who support of the improvement of pediatric care services ifrc allocates dref funding to respond to small-scale emergencies in kazakhstan and georgia .
on the tavis smiley show : sasha abramsky , the american way of poverty here 's why the navy is holding a terror suspect at sea boy who scored in nebraska spring game learns cancer is in remission “ one of the students came to me and said , ‘ we know something is happening , but no one is talking about this . ’
i talked to the principal and said there needed to be more dialogue , ” recalled eliason , a republican .
“ having blinders on and not talking about it does not help anyone , ” anielski said in an interview with the sun news of ohio .
the challenge is separating gun safety from the politically fraught issue of gun control , said catherine barber , one of the co-authors of the study . the government is getting increasingly draconian with the media – for reasons we cannot yet tell .
this country is not under a state of emergency .
so why close newspapers , if we may ask ?
wiki iliyopita ilikuwa ni mbaya kwa viwango vyovyote katika tasnia ya habari nchini .
ni wiki ambayo serikali iliendelea kuitumia sheria ya magazeti namba 3 ya mwaka 1976 ambayo inatoa madaraka yasiyohojiwa kwa serikali kufungia vyombo vya habari , kwa kile ambacho kimekuwa kinadaiwa kuwa ni kuendesha uchochezi .
those who stole taxpayers ' trillions should be arrested and prosecuted three years ago on november 19 , 2010 , dar es salaam water supply and sewerage authority ( dawasa ) and dar es salaam water and sewerage corporation ( dawasco ) submitted an application for review and approval of water supply and sewerage tariffs .
a few years ago , president jakaya kikwete called on tanzanians to embark on fish farming in a bid to improve availability of the resource in the country and also to improve their incomes .
how well informed and prepared are tanzanians in donating blood ?
the fifth round of the league was concluded yesterday but the major highlight so far has been violence that has to a great extent tarnished the unfolding season .
the aim is to protect the health of consumers , who have become the target of all sorts of desperate sellers , out to make a quick buck at whatever cost .
youth power is a word we have heard uttered often , but sadly it is mainly in the context of the politics of competition .
our good government is said to have cautioned our parliamentary representatives sitting in dodoma now against putting pressure on it to name drug kingpins because some of them are on the list .
to the government it is their intricate duty while to the companies it is a choice of commitment to social responsibility .
on monday , mali , ’ a country wracked by a rebellion , a coup and an islamic insurgency ’ held a democratic election in an effort to stabilise the country .
but in and of itself , an election does not secure a nation ’ s stability .
president jakaya kikwete on friday silenced war mongers who took advantage of the recent ’ minor ’ diplomatic tension between rwanda and tanzania to campaign for a war to further personal interests .
tanzania is on the verge of enforcing a law guarantee the citizenry the right to legal representation at no obligation to the beneficiaries .
chinese ambassador to tanzania dr lu youqing has a point we cannot ignore : the need to involve big companies operating in the country ’ s war against poverty .
the dar es salaam water and sewerage authority ( dawasa ) has failed to supply water to the residents of dar es salaam , the country ’ s commercial capital and a home to about 5 million people .
as many will recall , just a couple of years or so ago , cleric-turned-herbalist ’ babu samunge ’ of loliondo fame came up with a drink he said was a surefire cure for the disease .
the dar es salaam water and sewerage corporation ( dawasco ) is up in arms over a news story published in this paper only days ago suggesting that there is a hopelessly erratic supply of tap water in parts of one of the city ’ s suburbs , a densely populated one at that , and that the problem has prevailed for quite some time now .
tanzania has a long way to go before it can really make noticeable headway in soccer at the international – indeed , even regional – stage .
suggesting or believing to the contrary would be foolhardy .
while have resumed our regular routine as a nation , it is not ’ business as usual ’ as such considering the goings-on at the annual dares salaam international trade fair ( ditf ) .
president jakaya kikwete opened the african first ladies summit in dar es salaam on tuesday commenting on how women in africa do most of the work but often get much less for their sweat and toil than what lands in the hands of men .
in 2011 , a group of lawmakers including the current deputy minister for this week opened on a highly promising note for the media fraternity in tanzania , what with monday ’ s historic launch – in dar es salaam – of a book on guidelines on the teaching of media ethics in journalism schools in the country .
get your daily dosage of cartoons from kabwela , the flexibles and dogo em mid-day roundup : india is close to junk , but its corporates may pleasantly surprise twitter may not be public yet , but the stock should be worth $ 50 by the end next year .
that 's according to suntrust robinson humphrey 's rob peck , who today was the first on the street to initiate coverage of the stock , with a buy rating . hain celestial 's ( hain ) shareholders are feeling a bit healthier today .
ned davis : downbeat 2014 for china , commodities ; gold supercycle dead ?
facebook : macquarie ups target to $ 62 on mobile app install ads how many angels can dance on the head of a pin ?
is the best wins above replacement stat from fangraphs or baseball reference ?
in a day of big drops , hcp ( hcp ) has dropped the most , as the healthcare reit fired its ceo without warning .
vmware : fbn ups to buy on q4 momentum ; jefferies warns of weakening demand morningstar etf conference : ishares , vanguard get lion 's share of top etf picks this morning : as the blackberry turns , cheers for mellanox , arm qihoo annoys smartphone vendors with its new app ; positive for nq mobile , says wedge morningstar etf invest conference : you say you want an industrial revolution the striking priceways to play an end to budget crisis sign up for the safe checking in the electronic age e-mail list to receive our newsletter .
the nyt services may contain links to other web sites for your convenience and information .
we are not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of those sites .
what do we do with the information we gather about you ?
with whom do we share the information that we gather ?
we use localytics and flurry to track and report on the usage and browsing patterns on some of our mobile applications .
for more information about flurry and its privacy policy , please go to http : / / www.flurry.com / about-us / legal / privacy.html.
for more information about localytics and its privacy policy , please go to http : / / www.localytics.com / privacy-policy .
flurry and localytics may independently record the type of device and operating system you are using , general location information , as well as events that occur within our apps , such as how often you use our apps .
we do not receive that information .
if you download and use the times reader software application , the log files will automatically be collected by the application and sent to our servers when your computer syncs up for the latest news .
ads may be displayed within our apps .
the ads you see are not targeted to you based on your current gps location , but they may be targeted to you based on your device 's ip address or zip code .
your access to our web sites should not be affected if you do not accept cookies served by third parties .
what do we do with the information we gather about you ?
with whom do we share the information that we gather ?
reactivan bombeo de agua a comunidades del occidente de falcón el bombeo de agua a las comunidades del occidente del estado falcón que se encuentran conectadas al acueducto bolivariano fue reactivado , toda vez que se completó la ... hospital universitario de maracaibo firmó decreto contra la discriminaciónlo resaltaron este lunes los defensores de los derechos humanos en la entidad zuliana , pacientes y la directiva en pleno de este centro asistencial luego que se firmara ... profesionales y técnicos del psuv cojedes apoyan solicitud de ley habilitanteel frente de profesionales y técnicos del partido socialista unido de venezuela ( psuv ) en el estado cojedes expresó su respaldo al presidente de la república , nicolás ...
reactivan bombeo de agua a comunidades del occidente de falcón profesionales y técnicos del psuv cojedes apoyan solicitud de ley habilitante en lara afinan preparativos para celebrar bicentenario del paso de bolívar por cabudare n el estado lara afinan los preparativos para celebrar el bicentenario del paso del libertador , simón bolívar , por cabudare , la capital del municipio palavecino de esta entidad federal , informó américo cortez , uno de los integrantes de la comisión encargada de promover este festejo bicentenario durante el tercer y último proceso de captación militar de este año , un total de 2.060 hombres y mujeres fueron seleccionados en la circunscripción militar de los estado anzoátegui , sucre y monagas , con la finalidad de prestar sus servicios de forma voluntaria a la fuerza armada nacional bolivariana 1.000 mujeres de táchira se suman a batalla contra el contrabando y especulación la ministra para la mujer e igualdad de género , andreína tarazón , detalló que los comités de defensa popular de la economía tendrán un factor multiplicador , ya que a cada participante se le ha invitado a trabajar para incorporar entre cinco y 10 mujeres más en nueve meses de gestión , fundesta ha entregado más de 60 millones de bolívares a pequeños y grandes productores como artesanos , músicos , costureras , peluqueras , reposteras y trabajadores del campo aragüeños juran lealtad al comandante chávez en primer aniversario de la victoria perfecta activada segunda fase de plan antimalárico en sur de bolívar inician plan de recuperación de alumbrado público en comunidad de maracay the spending has to stop somewhere . i don 't have the answers and don 't know where the line should be drawn but like most of you i voted for who i though would be the best person for the job . i 'm thinking the best person for the job has yet to be elected .
as a middle class working tax payer i am tired of carrying the load for others . i think we should stop this healthcare mess and the crazy spending before the working class becomes the bankrupt class . not only did my health insurance go up by a third at work but now i have to pay for health insurance for the deadbeats . i say help the young , old and disabled but the useless portion of society can get off their rears or deal with their consequences .
as for the president being willing to negotiate changes ... we 've had enough of his changes for one lifetime .
russia plans to spy on all of the sochi olympics was putin supporting obama on the shutdown or trolling him ?
a law just out of the kremlin is raising the specter of a new era ...
russiarussiatatar-bashkirnorth caucasusresetting the crackdown ? daghestani leader solicits support for azerbaijani president press roomtop storiesuse our contentjournalists in troublepress releasesrfe / rl expertscontact us aboutmission statementmanagement / governancehistory / archivesinternshipshavel fellowshipvisit rfe / rlfast facts & faqoff micthe rundown visa for sale latvia tying to shrink backdoor to an eu visa restaurants and plumbers to vets in your area .
it 's all here , decided you 'd like a pet , or need a local vet for the pet you we also have pet of the month !
win a 3kg bag of cat or looking for a place to eat or a takeaway meal ?
use tasty to search for the best food in kent ...
follow our two view listings for all age groups to help you find the best in the second phase of the operation karagwe district , one of the areas with highest number of illegal immigrants , has announced that it will work vigilantly to track and apprehend the aliens .
the model who wants to change the face of the ...
a chipstead father of three is set to strut his stuff on the catwalk at london fashion week next month.handyman mark rutter , of chevening ...
this conference intends to drew 1000 participants across the globe and it is expected the president jakaya kikwete to preside over the opening of the event in arusha mid-this month .
la circoncision est devenue à la mode au rwanda surtout chez les jeunes qui veulent limiter les risques d 'infection au vih et faire comme leurs voisins .
la demande dépasse largement les capacités d 'intervention gratuite du ministère de la santé .
mais tous les hommes ne sont pas conscients que se faire opérer ne " nous sommes toujours aux aguets , à l ’ écoute de la radio et des communiqués du secteur administratif de rilima sur la prochaine séance promotionnelle de circoncision .
les élèves sont déterminés plus que jamais à se faire circoncire " , atteste kamanzi , jeune élève du groupe scolaire de rilima à bugesera à l ’ est du rwanda .
" l ’ opération est gratuite .
le ministère de la santé ( minisante ) envoie du personnel qualifié dans les provinces .
chaque entité administrative à son tour .
mais les demandes restent trop fortes et par conséquent , non servies .
certains jeunes et adultes vont dans les provinces voisines " , atteste françois mutijima , un élève qui avait sollicité , au mois de janvier dernier , le centre de santé de kabutare , province du sud pour se faire opérer .
cette forte demande est due à la grande campagne de prévention contre les maladies sexuellement transmissibles dont le vih / sida lancée par le gouvernement rwandais en 2010 .
selon le secrétaire exécutif du secteur rilima , gaspard gasirabo , les agents du minisante viennent , le plus souvent , jeudi , jour du marché de rilima mobiliser les jeunes et adultes mâles à faire cette opération sans danger qui aurait de nombreux avantages .
il s 'agit simplement de couper le prépuce , un repli de la peau qui recouvre une partie de l 'organe génital des en effet , selon des études effectuées par oms et onusida , la circoncision diviserait par deux les risques d ’ infection par le virus du sida ( vih ) .
cette pratique pourrait ainsi éviter deux millions de contaminations et 300 000 morts dans les dix prochaines années en afrique sub-saharienne .
" cette forte campagne a rendu plus sensibles les jeunes élèves .
ils sollicitent sans cesse la prochaine date d ’ arrivée du personnel médical du minisante pour bénéficier du service gratuit de circoncision " , note gaspard .
jusqu 'à présent cette opération était payante et beaucoup se faisaient opérer par des tradi-praticiens sans mais cet engouement est aussi très risqué car il est souvent lié à une fausse interprétation du message .
beaucoup de jeunes garçons ou d 'hommes pensent qu 'une fois opérés ils n 'ont plus besoin d 'utiliser des préservatifs pour se protéger du vih .
ce qui est totalement erroné .
la prévention reste tout autant nécessaire pour éviter d 'attraper les mst que ce soit du côté des hommes comme de celui des femmes qui peuvent se faire infecter par des hommes circoncis .
mais chez les jeunes , la circoncision est devenue " à la mode " .
ils ont découvert en regardant films ou photos sur internet que dans les pays voisins comme la rdc et l 'ouganda , c 'était souvent une coutume et pas l 'apanage des seuls musulmans .
pour eux , outre le fait de les protéger , c 'est aussi une marque gare donc à celui qui ne suit pas la mode .
" j ’ ai décidé de payer 50 000 frw ( 80 & dollar ; ) pour être circoncis .
j ’ en avais marre des injures de mes collègues élèves .
on me considérait tantôt comme un vaurien , tantôt comme un rustique ( kafiri ) et tantôt comme une personne munie d ’ une bouteille ( allusion au sexe masculin incirconcis ) " , témoignent aussi bien françois mutijima que ses trois camarades au marché de rilima .
" la culture rwandaise tolère encore les incirconcis , mais dans les quartiers , ils sont des fois mal vus .
plus grave encore dans les les filles et les femmes ont aussi acquis une certaine considération à l ’ égard des circoncis jusqu 'à présent peu nombreux dans le pays .
pour mme kanyange , mère de trois enfants , bien que le coût de la circoncision soit élevé , elle revêt des avantages incontournables .
" la circoncision assure la propreté , elle est une opération chirurgicale esthétique pour les hommes " , estime-t-elle .
c 'est pourquoi , ils souhaiteraient que cette opération soit couverte par la mutuelle de santé .
mais pour andrew makaka , ancien directeur de la mutuelle de santé au niveau national , " la circoncision est perçue dans le contexte de couverts par la mutuelle de santé .
en plus de cela , les statistiques du dernier recensement général de la population , ont montré que plus d ’ un million cinq allentown teacher ’ s aides to picket mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt stirrin ’ up fun : garden harvest day draws in crowd sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 24 pm edt footprints in the february snow lead to an october arrest sun oct 6 , 2013 5 : 24 pm edt halloween lover ’ s compete to be central pa ’ s top monster mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt experience homelessness for just $ 2,000 sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 24 pm edt monastery on lititz pike ponders future mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt clinics here put brakes on parvo outbreak mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt it ’ s official : la colombe to fishtown fri oct 4 , 2013 3 : 24 pm edt buzzing about fmc ’ s new office space fri oct 4 , 2013 3 : 24 pm edt law firm m & a on a record-setting pace fri oct 4 , 2013 3 : 24 pm edt eviama : a different kind of green spa mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt chillin ’ on furlough mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt the nra really stands alone mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt the democrats ’ dash for dollars mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt gunman in philadelphia standoff hospitalized mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 24 am edt clark park ’ s art show a hands-on event mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 24 am edt a challenge for region ’ s universities mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 24 am edt photographer puts philadelphia in a new light mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 24 am edt karen to soak our region sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 24 pm edt cloudy and humid night sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 24 pm edt student-built battle bots widen their reach in the region fri oct 4 , 2013 3 : 24 pm edt va regional director moreland to retire fri oct 4 , 2013 3 : 24 pm edt murphy steps up to the plate fri oct 4 , 2013 1 : 24 pm edt denver looks to take a page from pittsburgh ’ s shale playbook fri oct 4 , 2013 1 : 24 pm edt car crashes , flips on rt. 19 in cranberry sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 24 pm edt congressman tim murphy weighs in on goverment shutdown sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 24 pm edt mysteries of the mind : researchers work to unravel causes of autism mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt as beth walley discovered , obesity is difficult to reverse mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt really , who doesn ’ t keep secrets mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt bless the pets mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt tobyhanna pastor to be sentenced mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt stroudsburg builder of cat houses hopes to win super bowl ad mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt arrest made in schuylkill county slashing mon jul 23 , 2012 11 : 24 am edt twitter tunes in to tv partnerships ahead of ipo mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt 49ers pound schaub , texans in lopsided 34-3 win mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt santorelli scores in ot and canucks top flames 5-4 mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt foles to the rescue mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 24 am edt ben ryan excited to be on other side of the fence homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 179 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificsouth pacificsouth pacificaustraliasamoafijinew zealandfijisport have your lawyer not theres look at the contract and advise you !
remember you need to be able to get your property out when you want or change the status as well as not incurring unusual costs ? ? ? ? & also rmember a company can be here today and gone tomorrow as well so alls these facts are worth considering .
to change the land status a fee you may incur may be high but again ask your legal adviser .
it compliments well the uk ’ s support to the government of tanzania ’ s big results now programme .
speaking ahead of the visit , sir simon said : & ldquo ; the uk sees tanzania as one of its key partners in africa and i am delighted to be visiting for the first time . & rdquo ; he added : & ldquo ; however the uk is the leading investor in tanzania , we still want to do more . & rdquo ; he said british want to do this by boosting trade and investment between the two countries and by continuing supporting tanzania ’ s development .
no doubt the legal struggle to bring ríos montt to justice will continue as the prosecution regroups and adjusts its strategy to the new ruling .
paul said it was a " legitimate " concern .
" government should never shut down if we 're doing our job appropriately , so really , what we need to be saying is why are we not passing spending bills the way we should do it , " he continued .
" do you take any responsibility for the tone , for your part in this ? "
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.cuvânt înainte | cadran politic pe o piata mass-media , în care multi se declara a fi apolitici si echidistanti , noi ne asumam prin titlul revistei caracterul politic al acestei publicatii .
din punctul nostru de vedere , nu exista nimic în afara dimensiunii politice .
politica înseamna pu-tere .
politica o întâlnim în interiorul statului ca forma de organizare a puterii si în orice relaţie umana ca forma de dominare şi supunere .
de la banala deţinere a telecomenzii în cadrul unei familii , care sugerează în acelaşi timp controlul si puterea decizionala , pâna la raportul dintre presedinte si premier , totul a devenit politic în societatea de astazi .
apolitismul nu înseamna neimplicare politica , iar cei care se declara apolitici nu fac altceva decât sa creeze iluzia echidistantei .
pasivitatea politica poate însemna atât dezinteres manifestat fata de activitatea politica cât si refuzul constient al partizanatului politic .
contrar interpretarilor date sondajelor de opinie , apolitismul manifestat la noi nu este unul al lipsei de interes , ci unul determinat de neîncredere , generat de prea multe dezamagiri . românii , în general , sunt fascinati de scena politica , însa sanctioneaza prin indiferenta ( absenteism electoral ) personajele politice .
desi este iluzorie cre-dinta ca cetateanul poate participa direct la luarea deciziilor politice , el este parte a politicii si reprezinta garantia ei .
tocmai de aceea , consideram ca indiferenta politica devine periculoasa daca nu este dublata de o informare reala si permanenta .
informatia bruta , preluata fara filtru si analiza poate deveni un inamic , te poate transforma în victima a manipularii si apoi în masa usor manevrabila .
ideea aparitiei revistei cadran politic a fost aceea de a oferi puncte de vedere si analize pertinente ale evenimentelor si proceselor politice interne si internationale , într-un moment în care nevoia de clarificari este mai mare ca oricând .
echipa redactionala nu-si doreste sa va furnizeze aceste certitudini , ci doar informatii si posibile grile de interpretare , construite pe baze stiintifice , astfel încât fiecare dintre noi sa capete o întelegere proprie asupra evenimetelor politice si sociale .
autorii materialelor pe care vi le propunem în paginile acestei publicatii sunt specialisti în stiinte sociale , mass-media si oameni de cultura ale caror puncte de vedere sunt importante pentru a oferi o imagine de ansamblu asupra lumii de astazi .
pentru ca fiecare dintre noi are propriile atitudini si valori , nu putem sa afirmam ca fiecare articol în parte va fi deplin neutru sau impartial .
putem afirma , fara teama de a gresi , ca revista este independenta din punct de vedere politic , ca orice opinie îsi va gasi locul în paginile ei , fie ea de dreapta sau de stânga .
suntem non-partizani , fara a fi apolitici .
promisiunea pe care o facem acum , la început de drum , cititorilor nostri este una de seriozitate si respect pentru cuvântul scris si mai ales pentru cei care , dorind o panorama a vietii politice , dincolo de paginile de scandal , vor deveni partenerii nostri de dialog . © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressoops !
page not found .
los angeles -- los angeles ( ap ) — the sandra bullock-george clooney space drama " gravity " flew to the top of the box office in its debut weekend .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.mary oliver ’ s ‘ dog songs ’ finds poetry in friends - nytimes.com scratching a muse ’ s earsmary oliver ’ s ‘ dog songs ’ finds poetry in friends her poems ’ titles make it clear that nature suffuses and sustains her work : “ white heron rises over blackwater , ” “ truro , the blueberry fields , ” “ old goldenrod at field ’ s edge . ”
as does this from “ mindful ” in the 2004 collection “ why i wake early ” : every dayi see or i hearsomethingthat more or lesskills mewith delight .
and the book transcends its dogginess .
it ’ s also about love , impermanence and the tears in things .
as ms. oliver asks in “ school , ” “ how many summers does a little dog have ? ”
still , she addresses the dog-poetry question in her essay “ dog talk ” : “ they are a kind of poetry themselves when they are devoted not only to us but to the wet night , to the moon and the rabbit-smell in the grass and their own bodies leaping forward . ”
that ms. oliver has a book of dog poems will surely make the poets and critics who sneer at her work howl .
though she has won a pulitzer prize and a national book award , her verse splits the poetic microcosm — a world in which a best-selling poet is always below suspicion .
“ one time a stranger came to the house and asked if i was mary oliver , ” she said , laughing .
“ and i said , ‘ no , i ’ m not mary oliver . ’ “ she grew up in maple heights , ohio , near cleveland , and even as a child she had a dog with whom she tripped and tramped the woods .
“ her name was tippy , and she had white at the tip of her tail , ” ms. oliver said .
“ she was a puppy who showed up at my great-aunt ’ s door , and she made a gift of her to me . ”
ms. oliver ’ s pleasure in ricky ’ s antics again evoked “ dog talk ” : “ because of the dog ’ s joyfulness , our own is increased .
it is no small gift . ”
nopd arrests suspect in shooting of 7-year-old sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 14 pm edt lafitte residents stay vigilant sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 14 pm edt sanford d ’ amato to stop at coquette cooking class on book tour fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt wisconsin ’ s richest not as upbeat on economy as rest of country fri oct 4 , 2013 2 : 20 pm edt bicyclist flown to hospital with injuries from crash in whitefish bay sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt post-boston security doesn ’ t dampen spirits at lakefront marathon sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt chris abele calls for outsourcing worker ’ s comp claims sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt contractor chaplains may be recalled ; ministering at military bases to resume sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 20 pm edt contractor chaplains recalled ; ministering at military bases to resume sat oct 5 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt 2 men try to rob brookfield jewelry store wed oct 2 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt return to the home page.vitrina cu cărți | cadran politic în data de 15 decembrie a.c. la academia română a avut loc festivitatea de acordare premiilor pentru cele mai bune cărţi publicate în anul 2009 .
colegei nostre virginia mircea i-a fost decernat din partea secţiei de filosofie premiul „ vasile conta ” pentru cartea „ islamul şi soarta lumii .
fundamentalismul islamic ca ideologie politică ” .
prima parte a volumului intitulat „ o eliberare dificilă ” ne arată că în primele momente după căderea regimurilor comuniste în europa de est , numeroşi analişti au impus termenul „ tranziţie ” ca şi cum punctul de plecare şi cel de sosire ar fi fost perfect cunoscute .
aceste borne simbolice erau întunecate ...
terorismul este o plagă .
poate fi inclus în maladiile cronice ale omenirii , o catastrofă de mărimea celor naturale , dar făcut de mâna oamenilor , la fel ca şi războiul .
ştiri despre manifestările teroriste sunt zilnic .
atentate cu bombe , autori invizibili şi victime nevinovate .
maladia e veche şi pare că nu se dezlipeşte de om de-a lungul istoriei sale .
nu erau raidurile ...
tags : noua dimensiune a terorismului international , virginia mircea , vitrina cu cărți în istoriografia română , există două filoane preţioase ale cercetărilor privind europa de sud-est .
cel dintâi , are la origine crearea , în 1913 , la bucureşti , a institutului de studii sud-est europene , de către nicolae iorga , gheorghe munteanu-murgoci şi vasile pârvan .
cel de-al doilea , institutul de studii şi cercetări balcanice , fondat în 1938 , la bucureşti , de victor papacostea ....
cartea “ razboiul secret din anul 1989 “ cerceteaza o tema ce apartine celei mai recente istorii ( 1989-1991 ) din romania dar si din celelal te tari foste socialiste din europa , inclusiv din fosta uniune sovietica .
revolutia din decembrie  89 : pacatul originar , sacrificiul fondator este prima carte dintr-o serie de sapte volume dedicate ultimelor doua decenii din istoria româniei .  nu am pretentia ca sunt detinatorul unui adevar politic , juridic sau istoric incontestabil , si sunt gata sa discut si sa accept orice documente , fapte sau marturii care pot lumina mai bine sau chiar altfel realitatea .
educatia ...
tags : emil constantinescu , pacatul originar , revolutia din decembrie  89 , sacrificiul fondator , vitrina cu cărți & # 8220 ; alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal este o personalitate prezentă în toate areopagurile politice , filosofice sau teologice unde se discută soarta globală a lumii . [ … ] nu portretul iordanianului sau al arabului este ales de autor ca titlu al lucrării sale .
este un portret mai larg care le cuprinde pe precedentele : este acela al mahomedanului .
acesta trebuie cunoscut în forma ...
tags : a fi musulman , alteţa sa regală prinţul el hassan bin talal , democratie , el hassan bin talal , islam , pace , vitrina cu cărți cartea dăruită de autor nu are aproape nimic literar , este o prezentare de fapte şi personaje reale din timpul revoluţiei din decembrie 1989 , care se constituie într-o mărturie şocantă ce multor lideri politici postdecembrişti nu le convine , dar nu numai atât , au încercat cu asiduitate să creeze în jurul autorului o legendă potrivit căreia informaţiile publicate nu pot fi credibile ... © 2011 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress kentonline home devious carer steals names of vulnerable in bid to get credit gillingham manager martin allen was thrilled to be putting smiles back on people ’ s faces .
if not for barriers of the structure system of the union , the bustle of the difficult economic situation would only be a story .
the decision of free trade zone for zanzibar is not new to zanzibaris .
it was dr salmin who decided to declare fumba area a epz area .
if it were a disease , what we do is to have doctors diagnose it and later find an appropriate therapy .
there is no way you can treat a disease without first diagnosing it .
is when we are in the process of writing a new constitution what the role of economics in our draft issued by the commission of justice warioba tanzanians think about economic union ?
now i am pretty sure she is the most organized editor in the business .
she is a seasoned pro with the english language yet doesn & # 8217 ; t seem to know the meaning of procrastination .
st vincent and the grenadines hosts regional conference on reparations letter : gonsalves ganja stance is a breath of fresh air september 14 , 2013 for months , attempts were made to get persons within the higher rungs of the vincentian government structure to make comments on the issue of the decriminalization of marijuana .
those government functionaries to this date are yet to return messages on the request for an interview ...
commentary : climate change : the present and future prospects in st vincent and the grenadines burundi : rencontre entre pouvoir et opposition sur la question du code électoral burundi : rencontre entre pouvoir et opposition sur la question du code au burundi , alors que l ’ opposition avait boycotté les élections générales de 2010 , les nations unies ont organisé mi-mars les premières discussions pouvoir-opposition en vue d ’ organiser en 2015 des élections libres et apaisées .
ce qui avait débouché sur la signature d ’ une feuille de route .
les organisateurs veulent transformer l ’ essai en organisant une nouvelle rencontre entre les acteurs politiques burundais sur la question du code électoral dès aujourd ’ hui , mais ça nous n ’ attendons rien de la rencontre de kayanza .
l 'opposition burundaise toute la classe politique burundaise va se retrouver une nouvelle fois autour d ’ une table de discussions .
et pour & rdquo ; favoriser & bdquo ; la concentration des participants , cet atelier se tiendra dans le cadre champêtre de kayanza , dans le pendant trois jours , pouvoir et opposition vont tenter de nettoyer le code électoral burundais , un texte très lacunaire selon l ’ avis de toutes les parties .
d ’ ores et déjà , les différents protagonistes se sont mis d ’ accord sur bon nombre également s ’ accorder sur la question du règlement du contentieux électoral ou mais les nuages s ’ accumulent déjà au-dessus de cette rencontre .
l ’ opposition accuse le pouvoir burundais d ’ avoir uniquement distribué le document de travail aux partis politiques qui lui sont proches , mais aussi de continuer à empêcher les réunions de l ’ opposition en violation de la feuille de route signée en mars & rdquo ; nous n ’ attendons rien de la rencontre de kayanza , mais nous y serons quand council to consider incentives for job creation sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 23 am edt little pom pom sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 23 am edt conflict questions raised in pr firms tie to da sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 23 am edt ap interview : obama on the budget battle sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 23 am edt ap interview : obama on new gop class sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 23 am edt teens joyride in ambulance ends in rollover crash mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 23 am edt defense steps up in cowboys win sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 23 pm edt glenpool residents to vote on sales tax sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 23 pm edt ba expy. closed due to motorcycle wreck sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 23 am edt manufacturer to close okc operations sun oct 6 , 2013 5 : 23 pm edt manna gives home to orphans mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 23 am edt man first on the scene of a deadly car accident stepped in to help victims sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 23 pm edt owasso store : ’ pull up your pants ’ fri oct 4 , 2013 11 : 23 pm edt osu museum of art postal plaza gallery to open mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 23 am edt reeder ’ s - old school with a new twist sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 23 pm edt by rob driscoll a lot of folks in the business world go to great lengths to avoid having their children along for a business trip , fearing it would be at best distracting and at worst chaos .
i was part of & hellip ; continue reading & rarr ; deliver any posting to that you do not have a right to make available under law or contractual or fiduciary relationships . ( iii ) identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled , and information reasonably sufficient to permit clear channel to locate the material . ( v ) a statement that the complaining party has a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner , its agent , or the law .
tajikistan who and development partners conducted assessment of the quality of antenatal and postnatal care in tajikistan “ ас атасы – нан ” – bread is the head of all foods , kazakh proverb in april , the most likely emergencies will be due to floods and flash floods , particularly in yakhsu and kizilsu rivers .
homeowner shoots , kills suspected burglar mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 12 am edt slip-sliding a way to better driving skills mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt noblesville men jailed in boat theft , arson sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt an indy moment : giving back to the one who served sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 12 pm edt are tech skills the answer ?
sat oct 5 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt impd : dad drops kid out of window sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 12 pm edt iu student found dead in dorm sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 12 pm edt police : iu student dies in dorm sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 12 pm edt neighbors come to rescue of noblesville man under attack mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 12 am edt ap impact : tribes mishandle funds , go unpunished mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 12 am edt government ’ s work stacking up a week into shutdown mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 12 am edt bp trial to focus on scientists ’ spill estimates mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt be ready for the bike patrol sat oct 5 , 2013 07 : 12 am edt an enlightening subject fri oct 4 , 2013 07 : 12 am edt packing the house for business thu oct 3 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt harvest of history wed oct 2 , 2013 11 : 12 pm edt terms of service mon dec 26 , 2011 10 : 47 am est ex-indiana lawmaker faces charge of soliciting sex fri dec 9 , 2011 01 : 12 am est ’ the creativity is in the presentation ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 12 am edt michiana ’ s recovery under way but incomplete sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 12 am edt questions remain about new law sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 12 am edt backers want sba initiative reinstated sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 12 am edt information fairs to be held in buckingham and steeple claydon preparan convenio para profesionalizar a guardias de seguridad patrimonial del metrorepresentantes del metro de caracas y de la universidad nacional experimental de la seguridad ( unes ) estudian la firma de un convenio para la creación de cursos ... buscaracas se une al plan caracas rueda libre los domingosel ministro haiman el troudi explicó que la vía exclusiva del buscaracas se convertirá en una ciclovía todos los domingos , desde las 7 : 00 de la mañana hasta la 1 : 00 de ... villegas plantea llevar plan caracas rueda libre a toda el área metropolitanael candidato socialista a la alcaldía metropolitano hizo un llamado a los caraqueños para que abandonen el sedentarismo , una de las causas de la obesidad , que se ha ...
preparan convenio para profesionalizar a guardias de seguridad patrimonial del metro buscaracas se une al plan caracas rueda libre los domingos villegas plantea llevar plan caracas rueda libre a toda el área metropolitana el alcalde jorge rodríguez destacó que , a diferencia de antes , cuando ese espacio estaba tomado por el sector privado , ahora la comunidad es la dueña del recinto y será la que decida desde el nombre que le va a colocar hasta la manera en cómo se administrarán las actividades parque nuevas generaciones urbanas de caricuao es declarado espacio de vida y paz para celebrar la declaratoria , este domingo se realizaron diversas actividades culturales y recreativas , así como exhibiciones de taekwondo , breaking , spinning , bailoterapia y danza árabe crecimiento urbano de caracas es reflejado en exposición pictórica en el valle este viernes , a las 10 : 00 de la mañana , fue inaugurada en la sala de exposiciones de la universidad simón rodríguez de la parroquia el valle , la exposición " yo tengo mi caracaos contento " , del artista plástico fran soteldo más de 500 fotografías narran la vida de chávez en el casco histórico de caracas más de 500 fotografías , que narran la vida y obra del líder de la revolución bolivariana , hugo chávez , se pueden apreciar en el casco histórico de caracas , a propósito del primer aniversario de su cierre de campaña , precio a la victoria del 7 de octubre de 2012 con un circuito de 12 kilómetros cierra edición 70 del plan caracas rueda libre wapc condemns government for closure of two newspapers na the guardian reporter josé vicente rangel : en la derecha crece sentimiento de rechazo hacia caprilesla falta de solidez de sus planteamientos y la ausencia de tareas organizativas son algunas de las críticas que dirigentes de la derecha nacional le hacen a henrique ... rangel : la derecha quiere una guerra civilel periodista señaló que el legado de chávez será blanco de ataques constantes para crear en el imaginario del colectivo chavista " sentimientos de desamparo y de ... ivad : psuv lidera encuestas en municipios bejuma , guacara y naguanagua en caraboboen el municipio naguanagua se realizaron 350 entrevistas , entre el 15 y 23 de septiembre .
allí , el sondeo reveló que el 35,7 % votará por el candidato socialista a la ...
josé vicente rangel : en la derecha crece sentimiento de rechazo hacia capriles ivad : psuv lidera encuestas en municipios bejuma , guacara y naguanagua en carabobo istúriz : sector opositor está gestando un plan desestabilizador en anzoátegui el gobernador denunció que la derecha anzoatiguense está ejecutando una estrategia negativa que apunta hacia la desestabilización de los servicios básicos en la entidad , así como la perturbación del funcionamiento de la industria petrolera de anzoátegui diputados vinculados a planes desestabilizadores se agrupan para " defender " el país la comisión forma parte de un grupo llamado " la movida parlamentaria " en la que participa la diputada maría corina machado , firmante del decreto que abolió los poderes del país tras el golpe de estado contra hugo chávez en 2002 ics : 54 % de la población confía en que el país mejorará con el gobierno del presidente maduro el director de estadística de ics , simón córdova , puntualizó que este resultado muestra que " la sociedad venezolana confía en que el presidente maduro va a solucionar los problemas y va a largo o mediano plazo mejorar la situación económica " daza : gobierno ha tomado medidas acertadas para derrotar planes intervencionistas de eeuu el gobierno nacional está tomando decisiones políticas acertadas dirigidas a derrotar la feroz contraofensiva intervencionista del imperialismo norteamericano en contra de venezuela , destacó este martes roy daza , diputado al parlamento latinoamericano , capítulo venezuela medio privado manipula cifra de homicidios para estimular el miedo arusha enjoys new look tarmac roads na the guardian reporter home | about | search | site map what 's actually in a chicken nugget ? this , and the " beef " used in fast food , used to be used only for dog and cat food . now , dog and cat food tends to be healthier than the garbage america 's fast food industry ( and the big meat industry ) slops out to consumers .
i 'm no fan of greasy fast food but this really is a disingenuous piece of contrived gross-out clickbait .
quote : " " fat , blood vessels and nerves " ?
those are components of any meat you eat . "
disgusting . has anyone ever thought that when they see " white chicken meat " on the labels that it is not " chicken breast " ?
' cuz if it were , it would say it .
i 've always wondered if it is bleached thighs . well , or something else . who knows .
" chicken nuggets are an excellent source of protein , especially for kids who might be picky eaters " come on . so is cat food . and there 's probably as much chicken in a can of chicken cat food as there is in a " chicken " nugget .
omg ... i think i need to pen an apologies for all those times i bribed my children with a happy meal ... and these " nuggets of nothingness " pass the usda all these years ?
tma gives details of weather forecast for the country na devota mwachang 'a in the lake victoria basin ( kagera , geita and mara regions ) , northern kigoma and northern parts of arusha and kilimanjaro regions , rains are likely to be normal .
" in 90-91 , we didn ’ t know what we had except that it had to be entirely new because it was the first dinosaur , ” said hammer , who returned to the beardmore region for a third time with his largest team to date in an effort to recover as much of the meat-eating dinosaur as possible .
among the new discoveries is the partial skeleton of an ornithischian , or bird-hipped dinosaur , found under an overhang near the cryolophosaurus quarry by roger smith in the waning days of the field season .
that ’ s in contrast to the early jurassic , when the world ’ s landmasses were sealed together in the supercontinent called pangaea .
" the world was a biogeographic superhighway , ” makovicky said , explaining that an animal could literally traverse from one end of the world to the other .
the big question : did they ?
cryolophosaurus ’ closest relatives to date lived in what is modern-day united states and china .
in the pangaea configuration , they would have been at the far corners of the supercontinent from antarctica .
" we ’ re trying to do the whole mesozoic as much as we can , ” said hammer , referring to an era nearly 200 million years long , sandwiched between two mass extinctions , and loosely known as the age of dinosaurs .
" it ’ s simply two different environments ; that is the reason why you can find so much in the triassic and so little in the lower jurassic , ” koppelhus said .
the cold and altitude are tough on people and equipment .
makovicky said he lost a half-day on the mountain trying to get the jackhammer to start in the extreme cold .
he had to use the exhaust from a generator to warm it up .
" you ’ re thinking in ways that you ’ re not used to when you do fieldwork anywhere else , ” he said .
it ’ s a mindset familiar to hammer , who has made eight trips to antarctica since the 1970s .
the 61-year-old paleontologist mused it could be his last visit , at least to the beardmore region . * * * president ilham aliyev receives a delegation led by member of the french senate , head of the senate 's observation mission american journal of “ turkish weekly ” : why and how agdam fellbringing the best brains togetherperfect example of humanism azerbaijan ’ s fm meets members of national conference on soviet jewry 07.10.2013 [ 22 : 39 ] speaker of azerbaijani parliament ogtay asadov has today met a delegation led by member of the french senate , head of the senate 's observation mission nathalie goulet .
the concert is organized by azerbaijan 's ministry of culture and tourism .
the event , held under the “ health sector reform project ” of the azerbaijani ...
according to the seismological service of the azerbaijan national academy of sciences , the [ 17 : 32 ] representatives of osce office in baku visit heydar aliyev baku oil refinery hildenborough afc and metrogas played out an entertaining 1-1 draw on saturday.the hosts started on the front foot when a metrogas forward ...
“ if the federal va has to lay off employees , then claims won ’ t be processed and veterans possibly won ’ t receive their benefits or payments for pension and compensations , but right now there is no effect on the state va , ” horton of the alabama va said .
norman girvan is professor emeritus at the university of the west indies .
he is a former secretary general of the association of caribbean states in several important respects therefore , i read the decision by the ccj as an important step in strengthening the legal basis for the operation of the caribbean community .
it gives teeth to the revised treaty of chaguaramas and meaning to the decisions of caricom organs ; and hence can be the basis of addressing the & ldquo ; implementation deficit & rdquo ; .
the decision will be undoubtedly be controversial , welcomed in some quarters and denounced in others .
but in the opinion of this writer , it can and should be seen as shot in the arm for the integration movement .
reference may be made to the executive summary paras .
( 7 ) to ( 15 ) and to the full text of the court ’ s decision.reads : 768 but the site has its critics .
unlike the one in massachusetts , the utah exchange — now called avenue h — does not vet insurance policies or negotiate for the lowest prices .
built in 2009 , the website was designed to let all insurance carriers offer their policies to small businesses as a way to promote competition .
mai avem puțin și rămân doar 12 luni până la debutul campaniei electorale pentru alegerile prezidențiale , dar în momentul de față avem un singur candidat sigur : crin antonescu .
să vedem potențialii contracandidați și șansele lor în ordinea probabilității candidaturii : infrastructură , telecomunicaţii , energie , dar şi schimburi culturale .
acestea au fost domeniile cheie care au fost ţintite de oficialii de la bucureşti cu ocazia a ceea ce ar putea fi numit un adevărat desant asupra chinei .
terenul a fost pregătit în primăvară , de constantin niţă , ministrul delegat pentru energie , pentru ca , recent , o întreagă delegaţie guvernamentală , condusă de premierul ...
discursul preşedintelui emil constantinescu la reuniunea la vârf a iniţiativei levant pentru pace globală , , la sediul naţiunilor unite , în perioada 24-25 iunie a.c odată cu intrarea în vigoare a tratatului de la lisabona în 1 decembrie 2009 , au intervenit schimbări în arhitectura instituţională a uniunii europene , cu impact asupra proceselor decizionale în sferă politico-legislativă .
este însă neclar deocamdată în ce măsură această reaşezare este definitivă , semnificativă , oportună ori eficace .
noul guvern al româniei a readus în discuţie tema alegerilor regionale şi descentralizarea ţării , în special pentru o mai bună absorbţie a fondurilor europene , dar nu numai .
să ne amintim că şi acum câţiva ani , când se discuta despre posibilităţi asupra modului de alegere a parlamentarilor europeni în românia , vasile puşcaş propunea chiar alegeri pe circumscripţii regionale .
odată cu formarea guvernului ponta se pune punct oficial epocii traian băsescu .
chiar dacă preşedintele rămâne în politică , rolul său va fi unul marginal , aşa cum a fost al lui ion iliescu după 2004 .
deşi unii ( inclusiv preşedintele băsescu ) au încercat să-i atribuie un rol mai important , influenţa lui ion iliescu asupra psd a fost minoră după “ noapta cuţitelor lungi ” când ...
alegerile prezidenţiale din statele unite ale americii au generat numeroase dezbateri furtunoase pro sau contra celor doi candidaţi .
relevanţa globală a acestor alegeri nu mai trebuie demonstrată , deşi nu întotdeauna alegerile aduc schimbări semnificative în politicile americane faţă de diferite regiuni ale lumii . şi apoi nu mică mi-a fost surprinderea să constat că în multe cazuri , ...
scrisoarea domnului emil constantinescu adresată domnului martin shulz , preşedintele pe vă adresez această scrisoare cu ocazia dezbaterilor organizate de parlamentul european asupra situaţiei politice din românia , în calitate de preşedinte al româniei între 1996 şi 2000 , perioadă în care consiliul european a decis începerea negocierilor de aderare la uniunea europeană în pofida unei ...
pentru a salva euro , uniunea europeană a impus în runde repetate politici de austeritate fiscală .
rezultatul a fost previzibil : a crescut şomajul şi veniturile au scăzut .
acest cerc vicios a transformat o problemă economică într-o dilemă politică cu guverne de stânga în creştere , în semn de protest faţă de politicile neoliberale , cu plecarea greciei din zona euro , cu germania care ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress burundi | reliefweb bulletin de la securité africaine no.25 - les opérations de paix en afrique : enseignements tirés depuis 2000 agence france-presse : © afp : the information provided in this product is for personal use only .
none of it may be reproduced in any form whatsoever without the express permission of agence france-presse .
burundi affrontements entre jeunes du parti au pouvoir et de l & # 039 ; opposition bujumbura , 7 octobre 2013 ( afp ) - des affrontements entre jeunes du parti au pouvoir et d 'un parti d 'opposition ont fait cinq blessés graves et des dizaines de blessés légers dimanche près de bujumbura , ont indiqué des sources concordantes lundi à l 'afp .
world + 18 others bulletin de la securité africaine no.25 - les opérations de paix en afrique : enseignements tirés depuis 2000 plus de 50 opérations de paix ont été déployées dans 18 pays d ’ afrique depuis 2000 .
le « maintien de la paix en partenariat » , qui implique une coopération entre divers acteurs et institutions multilatérales et bilatérales , est devenu de plus en plus commun .
les efforts de génération des forces devraient porter sur le déploiement des capacités requises en vue de la réalisation des objectifs de la mission et pas seulement sur le nombre de soldats de la paix .
democratic republic of the congo + 7 others rapport du secrétaire général sur la mise en œuvre de l ’ accord-cadre pour la paix , la sécurité et la coopération pour la république démocratique du congo et la région ( s / 2013 / 569 ) le maïs blanc est la céréale de base principale consommées en tanzanie , au kenya et en ethiopie .
en ouganda , le maïs blanc est cultivé principalement en tant que culture commerciale pour l 'exportation dans la région .
le riz importé est un aliment de base majeur pour djibouti et la somalie , qui consomment principalement belem ‐ le riz importé rouge .
la tanzanie est également un producteur majeur et source de riz dans la région tandis que le kenya et l 'ouganda sont de petits producteurs .
les deux rouges et le sorgho blanc sont produits et consommés dans la région .
burundi priorité au développement et à la consolidation de la paix 26 septembre 2013 – tout en réaffirmant son engagement en faveur de la réalisation des objectifs du millénaire pour le développement ( omd ) , le ministre des relations extérieures du burundi , laurent kavakure , a souligné les progrès réalisés par son pays en matière de consolidation de la paix .
burkina faso + 5 others six pays bénéficient de l ’ aide de l ’ union européenne et de la fao pour atteindre l ’ omd sur la faim faire équipe pour améliorer la nutrition de deux millions de personnes burundi le hcr accorde un don de quatre presses à briques au gouvernement du burundi la représentation du hcr au burundi vient d ’ accorder un don de quatre presses à briques au ministère de la solidarité nationale , droits de l ’ homme et genre .
ces presses à briques avaient été achetées et utilisées dans la construction des infrastructures communautaires et sociales , comme des écoles dans les communes de retours des rapatriés .
une sélection d 'articles d 'irin sont publiés sur reliefweb .
trouvez d 'autres articles et analyses d 'irin sur http : / / www.irinnews.org cet article ne reflète pas nécessairement les vues des nations unies .
voir irin droits d 'auteur pour les conditions d 'utilisation .
if your kid needs remedial help and you all need to go on vacation , taking a tutor on the road might be the best solution .
fbr capital markets initiated coverage of the reit at outperform .
credit suisse says aetna , humana and wellpoint are set to pick up policyholders .
latam airlines got off to a bumpy start after it was formed by a merger last year .
but now it looks to be working out the problems .
why the stock could jump 20 % or more .
i have often wondered in the past few weeks why the establishment press has been so pro yellen and anti summers .
my suspicion is confirmed .
yellen is the driving force behind qe forever and summers is the skeptic .
on was continuation of bond buying the yellen fed 's first decision ?
so much for responsibility .
the big opportunity slipped away , and fiscal planning has since devolved into a series of standoffs verging on defaults and shutdowns .
the latest one has washington paralyzed right now .
such as curbing the government 's addiction to debt and deficits .
it was a message of hope in times of trial , delivered by a man recognized as a prophet by a church ... - 2 : 07 am videosnews galleriessports galleriespeople galleriesoutdoor galleriesthen and now galleriesevent galleriesseasonal galleriesall galleriessend us your photos are you currently a subscriber ? set up your digital access now .
log inare you currently a subscriber ?
set up your digital access now .
create an account or if you have a digital profile log in .
become a subscriber today to continue enjoying all of the products the spectrum has to offer or you can download any of the following supported modern browsers : newslocal newsbusinessdixie statenation & worldnews galleriesstory archiveoutdoorshiking guideexploreoutdoor tipsnational & state parksoutdoor galleriesobituariesplace an obituarymultimediavideosnews galleriessports galleriespeople galleriesoutdoor galleriesthen and now galleriesevent galleriesseasonal galleriesall galleriessend us your photossportsprep sportsoutdoorsgolflifefeaturesentertainmentfaithfamilycelebrationspeople galleriescomicspuzzleshoroscopesopinionblogs chelsea are on a roll and should be too good for the canaries homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasterneastern europeeastern europebelarusbulgariaczech republicgeorgiahungarymoldovapolandromaniarussiaslovakiaukraineromaniaeconomypoliticssport only on fox16arkansas ' most wantedemail alertsfamily healthgood day arkansasgood earth green houseidol chatterjob alertlive weather camerasmobilenewslinksneighborhood crime trackerpolitical newsrants and raveswhat 's going aroundmayflower oil spillstop bullyinggood day arkansasmarketplacecomparative shoppingcouponsdirectory - seek it localfind a homefind a jobfree classifieds - seek it local lifestyle guidesmobile phone applicationcommunitybse remindercontestsrants and ravessite commentssponsorship requesttv tools for parentsviewer photos and videosviral videoeventsbig dam bridge 100light the nightstop bullyingfeatured links90 seconds in the kitchencommunity eventscw arkansasel latinofox networkidol chattergood earth green househogs & sec videolottery resultsnewslinkspump patrol - gas pricessevere weather guideyou decidearkansas timesabout uscontact usemail alertsfox16 news biosfox16 jobs / internshipsinergize digital networkprogram guideclosed caption concernsadvertise with uslive weather camerascontestsmayflower oil spill tesla ’ s musk responds to seattle-area car fire that singed his stock fri oct 4 , 2013 10 : 29 pm edt kirkland ’ s greenpoint buys texas facility fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt furloughed workers return to jblm monday mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 29 am edt darrington boys dig pit to survive night in wilderness sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 29 pm edt times writer explains the term ’ psychiatric boarding ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt body found in lynnwood park mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 29 am edt eyewitnesses tell how jblm soldier was fatally stabbed mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 29 am edt jblm soldier killed sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 29 am edt race may be factor in fatal stabbing of jblm soldier sat oct 5 , 2013 4 : 29 pm edt father , son embark on nationwide journey to find ’ dave smith ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 29 pm edt father , son embark on nationwide journey to find ’ david smith ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 29 pm edt lot 787 dreamliner diverted due to antenna snafu sun sep 29 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt shoddy workmanship blamed for tear in boeing 737 ’ s roof sat sep 28 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt newest version of boeing 787 dreamliner takes to the sky tue sep 17 , 2013 4 : 29 pm edt microsoft says ceo ballmer to retire in 12 months fri aug 23 , 2013 10 : 29 am edt microsoft to add outlook to windows rt tablets wed jun 5 , 2013 4 : 29 pm edt no-on-i-522 : show us the money ! !
sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 29 pm edt airbus poised to win japan airlines order in blow to boeing mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt at 93 , this rosie is still riveting sat oct 5 , 2013 8 : 29 pm edt drugmakers pay to attend fda advisory panels meetings , emails show mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt a wild weekend for horse tamers mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 29 am edt home | about | search | site mapmarriage in thailand a foreigner legally married to a thai citizen qualifies for a non-immigrant the bank and non immigrant visa .
you need to show bank statements and not necessarily from thailand eg singapore is ok as with vientianne but take 2 .
applicants must not have been adjudged mentally incapacitated as to negate to marry a thai citizen or a foreigner , you must : ( $ us55 or baht equivalent ) at the embassy or consulate .
chiangmai services are if i marry a thai-lady and make it officially in foreigner own business or property then we suggest to seek a prenuptial the house belongs to the one who owns the land .
of course the person who rents land and builds a house on it , can dismantle and move it to another location as long as it is allowed by the land lease .
in this 3 ) if married she can still buy a house but the husband must sign at the land and that if they divorce the house will not go to him ( also the wife must sign at the the law has now changed !
she can buy land provided her husband signs a declaration that he lays no claim to it. in the lanna kingdom of chiangmai where we can set up. to marry in the traditional old ways in a beautiful country .
a legal wedding fee would be it can take us up to 3-7 days to process .
you then choose to have an odd number of monks who will preside over the & 6th vacancy is buddha so offering to them can be in the form of money in a foreigner as best man ? one can say a few words in english and then the wrists in the land of smiles one can have a beautiful a truely happy occasion .
budget at about 10,000-20,000 baht depending on how everything from plates to cutlery to tables and chairs .
we can also arrange to land ?
yes 1 rai if he / she invests 40m baht .
can if he / she has a land ?
yes a good alternative to buying if one cannot predict their the children can inherit her share but it protects the foreigner as he / she has no rights if no lease and the wife dies first .
an usufruct is even a better way of securing your property and now is the best way for foreigners buying [ roperty in thailand. house ?
yes he can own the house outright .
all monies coming in over as being his / her money for the transaction .
it is a safeguard for you in case of she has a will then the children will inherit .
it pays to ask a lawyer to make his / her next of kin ?
yes if the house and land is held in a company. safeguard my investment ?
yes see our lawyer who can make prenuptial account ?
we say no as either or can withdraw & many foreigners seller 's lawyer if i buy a house or land ?
no as he or she will not be working girlfreind or wife if i buy a house or land ?
no use a lawyer to clear for you and transfer .
some land depts are known to support the thai if you qu : costs to divorce if have to go to court ?
most lawyers to assist in a divorce case will charge a starting fee of 80,000baht plus ?
it all depends on the complexity of the court case--where it is to be conducted etc .
qu : can you perform buddhist traditional wedding for m ?
yes if you want to marry in thailand we can arrange everything for you from monks chanting to whatever you want .
1 / .
write to nz embassy for the form .
fees are countries and many you cannot get visas at the airport any more .. path for my girl to come to the uk .
we 're not married , but i 'm hoping a is see if she can be live in england ( and with me full-time ! ) .
if ok then we you could go for a fiance visa .
that will give her 6 months in the uk during which time you decide if you want to marry or not - and marry .
it is then in a bbc documentary 5 / 6 years ago the programme showed applicants at the embassy and one guy in his 30s applied for his thai girl who was 15 and had a child was allowed a fiancee visa ! ! !
she lied about her age , claiming she was the 2nd case concerned the oap in his 70s , one brian clegg a retired british gas embassy awarded them a visa ! .
they met thru a bkk dating agency and spent a few days in the hotel bed weeks later cleared off and found a job in a thai restaurant somewhere in so you see applicants who should never get a visa may get one , and those who honghong : hong kong is one of the a.s.e.a.n. and no visa is required , or at least that is the theory , i took a girl there and i got 6 difficult .
if you 're going to be working in hong kong , the best way may be for you to " employ " her on a 2-year contract as a domestic helper .
she 'll then be able to get a long term visa to allow her to stay for a year , extendable for another year to the end of the contract .
she will not be allowed to work for separation : [ divorcing ] [ thai visa to the usa ] immigrant visas ] [ lawyer costs & services ] [ visas ] [ work permits ] [ companies ] [ limited partnerships ] [ tourist visas ] [ residency visa ] [ 1 year visa ] [ thai license ] [ company tax ] [ income tax ] [ company vat ] [ read expats newsboard ] [ chiangmai ] [ condos & rentals ] [ leasing land ] [ thai products ] [ arriving bangkok ] [ see online ads ] [ back to exporters list ] [ chiangmai ] [ fishing ] [ clothing ] [ aircraft ownership ] [ oil paintings ] [ wood doors ] [ motorcycle exports ] [ spare wheel covers ] [ canned food products ] [ renting or buying real estate ] [ sandstone ] [ ice boxes & eskies ] [ bike t shirts ] [ jeans & designer wear ] [ designer jeans ] i toolboxes i russian helicopter sales i wheelie bins i portable homes / offices ] [ genuine home furniture plastics company ] [ shop & showroom fittings ] [ china minibikes & off roaders ] [ oil paintings & reproductions ] [ funeral rotomolded windows & doors ] [ digital keyless door locks ] [ flipflops ] [ parquet flooring ] [ baby and children clothes ] [ rubber keyrings ] [ t shirts / polo shirts ] [ exporting cars & pickups ] [ tank tops ] [ lacquerware boehner , for his part , claimed it would be " irresponsible " of him not to seek a " serious conversation " over the country 's spending .
gop lawmakers have said that boehner wants to avoid a default , even if that means relying on democrats to do so , but on sunday he refused to make that pledge directly .
just saw for the umpteenth time " the american president " . a bit off the thrust of this article but maybe all sides , dems , gop and obama should see it and think about the message hidden within .
" do what is riht for the country " , not what is right for you. oleperfessur : just saw for the umpteenth time " the american president " .
a 2 of the sides ( obama / democrats ) already are doing " what is right for the country . "
mr. boehner is totally disingenuous in suggesting that he tried to converse with the president . the house that he leads tried 42 times to derail a law passed three years ago probably says it all about his level of ' cooperation ' . he didn 't have the votes in the senate or the legal support in the supreme court to do it . so it is time for extortion !
holding the nation and people hostage to try for the 43rd time . who is he kidding when he tries to claim that the adiministration wouldn 't cooperate . the fact is the democrats in the senate did compromise and he didn 't !
congress is responsible for he proposal of the budget , not the president .
i find myself asking how this mr. boehner really got to be the top repub . seriously !
ohio is ranked as one of the worst in the country when it comes to debt .
the only way this mr. boehner was able to win was due to the re-districting of the state based upon party lines .
boehner and his contingent of republican economic wreckers are attempting to instill in the minds of the many that his not paying for the congressional issued iou s is the fault of the democrats . unionave : boehner and his contingent of republican economic wreckers are attempting can you believe the gar.bage that comes out of the mouths of tea bags ?
there are a lot of teaxians who wear their malignorance as a badge of honor ....
the gop is clearly wrong in this matter , but you would not know it through the corporate media .
the gop was trying to get obama to agree to not funding the aca , which we know can not be done . their plan is , if obama to not funding the aca , they would say that he broke the law and they would be right . impeachment would be next . they are as stupid as you may think .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved . socratic news author to discuss ’ wolf country ’ at grass roots sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 24 pm edt corvallis rental market softening sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 24 am edt rogues gallery goes to school ?
sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 24 am edt milestones are time to reflect on mistakes fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 24 pm edt walk for the cause sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 24 am edt chad drive sitepicked for clinic fri mar 1 , 2013 04 : 24 am est low water and high hopes sun oct 6 , 2013 04 : 24 am edt sou science , theater halls will get facelifts mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt will fruitland construction ever be done ?
sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 24 am edt christmas in october sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 24 am edt carjacking complicated by childlocks mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 24 am edt sheridan market almostrobbed mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 24 am edt ’ four rules ’ for star wars episode7 mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 24 am edt douglas county moms tue sep 10 , 2013 8 : 24 pm edt pumpkin patches mean fun for all mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt a tasty benefit mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 24 am edt tough times ahead for sri lanka ’ s northern provincial councilwhen rebels retire in indonesiapreparing for mers virus ahead of hajj pilgrimagewill the climate change in warsaw ? analysis : idps return amid continuing insecurity in yemen ’ s war-torn abyan july 18 , 2013 the 2013 census of the north sound stingray population was just completed this past week and the news is generally good .
on day two of the census i had a late start as i was able to meet with the new chief officer in the ministry of the environment dr dax basdeo and mla roy mctaggart in the government ...
what is a digital subscription ?
how much does it cost ?
how do i get a preview of the nytimes.com redesign ?
get help with the nytimes apps for your smartphone or tablet .
see what else you can do on nytimes.com and explore everything the site has to offer .
everything you need to know about using the site , including how to register and how to get around .
wow & # 8211 ; what a wild weekend it was in waterton !
a weekend to remember & # 8230 ; for all the wrong reasons president nazarbayev is expected to visit belarus end of october homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasterneastern europeeastern europebelarusbulgariaczech republicgeorgiahungarymoldovapolandromaniarussiaslovakiaukrainebelaruseconomypoliticssport president nazarbayev is expected to visit belarus end of octoberkazinform 13 : 34 4-oct-13 although long overdue , it is refreshing to know that those who were made to suffer , due to the indifference of the guatemalan military oligarchy , are now receiving if but a modicum of justice 6 . choice & # 8212 ; you can choose to advertise in any or all of our regional editions ( bc , alberta , manitoba / saskatchewan and ontario ) .
good samaritan in suv incident honored sun oct 6 , 2013 3 : 21 pm edt midtown hit and run critically injures pedestrian sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 21 am edt biker formally charged in suv incident sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 21 am edt bryan cranston to make broadway debut as lbj mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 01 am edt your guide to medicare : what isnt covered ?
mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 01 am edt catsimatidis isnt done fighting ot lawsuit mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 21 am edt obamacare guides unready , unreachable mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 21 am edt third biker is charged in attack on s.u.v. driver mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 21 am edt man gunned down in brooklyn : cops sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 21 pm edt toddler dies after being hit by car in queens sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 21 pm edt review : stroman ’ s big fish flounders sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 21 pm edt by winning the wta for the & ldquo ; caribbean ’ s leading honeymoon destination & rdquo ; it automatically affords antigua and barbuda the opportunity to be nominated within the same category at the wta global awards .
this is an accolade that the destination will be striving to coup from its caribbean competitors .
antigua and barbuda has also received several accolades by both brides magazine and about.com as one of the caribbean ’ s top destinations for weddings and honeymoons .
the huffington post has also recently cited antigua and barbuda as one of the top five honeymoon destinations in the world.reads : 3039 be captivated by the pristine landscape of antarctica and the abundant wildlife of south georgia from the comforts of a luxury , state-of-the-art vessel with kayaks and world-class guides .
he said the decision to run ’ rai ’ on daily or weekly basis solely lay on the firm ’ s discretion since the newspapers ’ ’ registrar gave the company permission to do so in 1994 .
the coalition said the news on the banning of the two tabloids had shocked the organisations in that the government has interfered with freedom of information which is a key pillar in good governance .
in a related development , the committee to protect journalists ( cpj ) condemned the decision by the government to suspend the two kiswahili dailies on accusations of sedition. engaged in a civil war driven by hostilities between hutu and tutsi peoples from un and chair of the burundi configuration of the un peacebuilding commission reconciliation commission to be operational by january 2012 and to establish a judicial mechanism to address impunity after the trc has completed its work , " said landgren , " these are important commitments .
the government has underlined to bnub that the trc process must be grounded in reconciliation and not in score seger said that the pbc is supportive of the creation of is also a way of tackling the present and the future too , " he said , " it 's but i think we are on the right track and ready to support the country there . " justice to un high commissioner for human rights navi pillay in geneva on may 3 .
find out how a family got on staying in a caravan in camber sands - the jewel in the crown of east sussex 's coast .
dreamland is a step closer to returning to margate as thanet district council move forwards in the process .
if you are fortunate enough to be able to go on a long summer holiday , use our guide to the perfect european destinations to while away the days .
des algériens mangent en public en plein ramadan , une première plus de 500 algériens ont mangé et bu en public en plein ramadan samedi dans la ville " rebelle " de tizi ouzou , dans une première action collective du genre pour marquer leur liberté de choix face à " l 'islamisation " du pays .
" il y a un climat de terreur qui règne contre ceux qui ne jeûnent pas " durant le mois de jeûne sacré musulman du ramadan , dénonce à l 'afp l 'un d 'eux , ali , la quarantaine , un technicien de cette ville kabyle située à 100 km d 'alger. acquiesce .
" il faut que la religion reste du domaine du privé " , dit-il en parmi les participants à cette action , figurent des citoyens sans affiliation et des militants politiques , surtout berbères , qui n 'hésitent pas à afficher le un étudiant de 18 ans , lounès , va encore plus loin en arborant une pancarte sur laquelle est écrit : " je ne suis pas arabe .
je ne suis pas obligé d 'être la ville de tizi ouzou a été le théâtre de troubles parfois sanglants liés aux revendications culturelles et identitaires des kabyles qui ont très mal vécu face à un public essentiellement jeune et masculin , armé de bouteilles d 'eau , de jus , de pain , de cigarettes et même de bières pour l 'un d 'eux , le président du mouvement pour l 'autonomie de la kabylie ( mak ) , bouaziz aït chebib , a revendiqué " l 'attachement ancestral " des kabyles " à la liberté de conscience " . de la religion " , lance-t-il , applaudi par les manifestants postés devant la préfecture sur le principal axe routier de cette ville de quelque 150.000 habitants , sans le moindre contrôle apparent de forces de sécurité .
et d 'annoncer que des manifestations similaires sont prévues ce jour à bejaïa , ville portuaire kabyle , et même en france et au canada , où vivent d 'importantes pendant le ramadan durant lequel les musulmans s 'abstiennent de boire , de manger , de fumer et d 'avoir des relations sexuelles du lever jusqu 'au coucher du soleil , les restaurants sont ouverts seulement dans les hôtels de luxe , et les autorités tout autant que les religieux incitent la population à respecter le jusque dans les années 1980 , dans les villes au moins , les restaurants étaient ouverts et ne jeûnaient que ceux qui le voulaient .
la guerre anti-islamiste de plus de dix ans ( à partir des années 1990 ) a changé la donne .
depuis , la société civile et nombre de partis d 'opposition avec le printemps arabe qui a vu l 'arrivée au pouvoir d 'islamistes dans ce rassemblement à tizi ouzou , l 'une des principales villes de kabylie , a été lancé dans la foulée d 'un contrôle de police effectué sur dénonciation le 19 juillet dans un bar fermé d 'une commune proche , tigzirt , où des jeunes déjeunaient .
le propriétaire , qui s 'était vu retirer sa licence , a finalement pu le wali de tizi ouzou , abdelkader bouazeghi , avait alors expliqué qu 'il ce n 'était pas la première fois que des mesures au moins vexatoires étaient prises contre des non jeûneurs .
des chrétiens algériens se sont même retrouvés devant la justice ces dernières années pour avoir refusé de faire carême .
" quelque 80 & percnt des algériens sont d 'accord avec ceux qui protestent contre le pouvoir grandissant des religieux dans le pays " , dit le technicien ali .
pour hamid , un retraité de tizi ouzou venu exprimer son soutien au mouvement , " il faut bien mettre un holà à tout cela : on ne peut pas forcer tout le monde à aller au paradis " , la fin ultime " promise " à tout pratiquant .
armenia and eu to cooperate on education , science and culture funding of eu military operations to be discussed in vilnius homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasternnorthern europenorthern europedenmarkestoniafinlandicelandlatvialithuanianorwayswedenbaltic statesfaroe islandsgreenlandlithuanialithuania homehomehot topics ( 4 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasterneastern europeeastern europebelarusbulgariaczech republicgeorgiahungarymoldovapolandromaniarussiaslovakiaukrainerussiaeconomypoliticselectionscorruptionsportchechnyaanti-government protestsnorth caucasus unrest cbts , uc partner to help it students fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 23 pm edt no rest for startups after kickstarter success fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt here ’ s another reason infill development is taking off fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt newcomers join list of cincinnati ’ s top web design firms fri oct 4 , 2013 12 : 23 pm edt watchdog : payroll funds for levy campaigns illegal ?
mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt pastor ’ s journey to wellness mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt john cranley to announce new economic plan mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt bengals ’ jones to go on trial on assault charge mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 23 am edt bengals fans react to win over patriots mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 23 am edt hamilton firefighter helps save man ’ s life in fl mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 23 am edt kenton county admin .
building to reopen on mon . sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 23 pm edt murder investigation in south fairmount sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 23 am edt police : man who set himself ablaze on mall dies sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 23 pm edt state commissioners ask epa for stricter vehicle and fuel standards even in the age of etfs , alan whitman of morgan stanley is a big believer in selecting individual stocks for each of his clients .
avoiding the perils of " over-diversification . "
top of the list : top 25 office buildings , taxpayers fri oct 4 , 2013 09 : 10 am edt with furlough of air safety inspectors , concerns soar mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 10 am edt braves on the brink of elimination mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt georgia ’ s marshall , scott-wesley out for the season mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt georgia ’ s marshall , scott-wesley out for season sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 10 pm edt karen weakens to depression off la. coast mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 10 am edt female firefighter says male co-worker groped her sat oct 5 , 2013 5 : 10 pm edt lawmaker wants georgia bicyclists to buy license plates sat oct 5 , 2013 3 : 10 pm edt father william fournier was ordained to the priesthood on june 9 , 1973 , by bishop paul anderson for the oblates of mary immaculate .
in 1992 , he entered the diocese of duluth and was incardinated to the diocese in 1994 .
father fournier served as the director of communications and as auditor in the tribunal for the diocese of duluth and was a board member for st. ann ’ s residence in duluth .
msgr. alexander suchan was ordained to the priesthood at the cathedral in katowic , poland , in 1988 .
she returned to the u.s. in 2010 and joined the staff of the global headquarters in 2011.oops !
page not found .
zier helped a client buy a herd of bison for his ranch in montana .
now he gets periodic gifts of bison jerky as a thank you they may offer support during times of stress , but for now they are " dead money " within a portfolio , he says .
" i never feel annoyed or upset that i have to get up or go to the office .
i 'm getting paid to do what i like to do anyway – help people , and talk about the markets . "
now that he 's older and wiser , zier accepts that knowledge like that can be elusive .
" the market is always changing ; it 's like a puzzle or a game that you can never win because someone rewrites the rules or hides a piece , and you have to go back to try to figure out what has happened , " he says .
" but at least i now feel that i understand the principles and how it works . "
lapann has only recently hired a manager who uses dividend-paying stocks .
" i had to ask myself , have i been missing out on something here by being a contrarian ? "
" it was almost a given that lapann would hang out his own shingle after a spell in portfolio management at pell rudman : he hails from a long line of entrepreneurs .
at the other end of the spectrum , lapann is hiring managers to scour the landscape for companies that are growing sustainably at a more rapid clip than the global economy .
one is swedish radiation-therapy equipment manufacturer elekta francais 's lowest grades in college were in accounting and taxation -- but he ended up as a tax partner at deloitte before moving on to aspiriant .
an entrepreneur asked francais to help him identify which of his two sons , rivals since childhood , was best-suited to take over the reins at the family-owned firm .
" one of the sons called one of the interviews i did ' the spanish inquisition , ' " he says .
the transition was successful and all the family members are still speaking to each other . "
the best bet in stocks now , he maintains , are blue-chips with the ability to access new markets and use technology to cut costs ; apple as a teenager , brighton saw people in his parents ' well-off social circle – ivy league-educated , working as professionals – make big financial errors .
so he resolved at an early age that he wouldn 't do the same .
rival factions in strike underscore the fissures in post-ch & # 225 ; vez venezuela homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americasouth americasouth americaargentinaboliviabrazilchilecolombiaecuadorfalkland islandsperuuruguayvenezuelavenezuelaeconomypoliticssport strike underscores fissures in venezuelathe new york times 08 : 57 7-oct-13 if your shipment has been received by customs and you refuse it because you will not pay the tariffs or taxes , we will refund you the cost of the product after charging you for the shipping and additional fees required to return the package to us .
the end of the neo-liberal age , or the return to the left the vision of aurelio peccei and its implications for our future this speech has been delivered by roberto d. peccei & # 8211 ; vice chancellor for research at the university of california los angeles and son of aurelio peccei , founder of the club of rome – at the conference “ the global crisis as seen by aurelio peccei ” organized by the romanian association for the club of rome on 15th march 2011 at the national bank of romania in bucharest .
i can ‘ t to comment about the feelings of the president & # 8211 ; it is generally unacceptable .... © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpresssearch indexmundi patients are being charged € 3 to renew their sip card in the torrevieja area .
with the introduction of electronic prescriptions many of the cards are proving unusable to dispense prescriptions in pharmacies due to the poor condition of the magnetic strip .
so now users will have to pay for a & # 8230 ; “ britney does not sing , " a source reportedly told the newspaper .
" she is being paid a lot of money to lip-sync .
her fans are none the wiser . ...
she hasn ’ t sung live for a couple of years . ”
vous surfez sur un appareil portable ?
rendez-vous sur m.huffingtonpost.com pour consulter les pages mobiles du huffington post .
si nous étions en période d 'examen , les sujets de français porteraient sans doute sur " le concept d 'autorité aujourd 'hui , à la lumière de ce qu 'en dit diderot dans l 'encyclopédie " , en mélangeant l 'actualité des 300 ans de la naissance du philosophe des lumières , les 55 ans de la vème république et la mode du moment , qui consiste à s 'interroger sur l 'autorité de françois hollande dans l 'exercice de son mandat présidentiel depuis 18 mois .
pas un journal cette semaine qui n 'aille de son hypothèse , de ses politologues , sociologues , psychologues glosant sur le caractère et la manière de gouverner du chef de l 'etat , disséquant sa faiblesse face à la détermination de certains de ses ministres .
politique - misère de la pensée actuelle , minée par le défaut de créativité et d 'énergie .
c 'est l 'air du temps .
donnons aux spectateurs ce qu 'ils attendent .
il faut que le sang coule , même s 'il est pour l 'instant symbolique .
débat d 'idées ?
non , combat de gladiateurs .
international - fin septembre , le premier ministre turc ragip tayyip erdogan a dévoilé son fameux " paquet de réformes démocratiques " tant attendu .
au final , rien de plus que des effets d 'annonces .
pour les 7000 prisonniers politiques de turquie , la déception est vive : pas de libération en vue .
anthropologue des religions , spécialiste de l 'islam , directeur de la revue noor religion - je veux briser les tabous imposés par l 'islam des rigoristes , arrimer cette religion magnifique aux données du temps présent .
j 'ai souhaité mettre au point des outils de réflexion autour de l 'islam , une méthodologie de travail , à commencer par le vocabulaire , pour éviter de se référer constamment au passé , aux traditions , à l 'histoire ...
éducation - que se cache-t-il derrière ces problématiques scolaires , ce manque de motivation , cette anxiété ?
l 'enfant ne naît pas anxieux , angoissé , hyper-actif , mauvais en math , français , mathématique ou en langues .
directrice exécutive de l 'ecole de journalisme de sciences po et productrice à radio france politique - des couacs gouvernementaux et des tentatives de recadrage : une communication jugée maladroite , inefficiente ...
un vent mauvais souffle sur les politiques , mais aussi sur les journalistes politiques , accusés tantôt de connivence tantôt de paresse intellectuelle .
journaliste spécialisé en gastronomie , ancien rédacteur du guide michelin , fondateur du site d ’ information atabula.com international - la france est montrée du doigt pour ses difficultés à consommer l 'argent mis à disposition par l 'union européenne .
si une part de l 'explication peut tenir à la crise qui n 'est pas favorable aux investissements et à l 'émergence de projets , elle ne saurait tout expliquer .
j 'en vois de toutes les couleurs des coachs ...
franchement , il y a de quoi être perdu !
face à ce constat j 'ai listé 10 critères vous permettant de vous assurer que vous avez affaire à un vrai professionnel qui pourra vous accompagner vers l 'atteinte de vos objectifs .
international - les inspecteurs de l 'onu sont arrivés en syrie .
des techniques expéditives seraient privilégiées et les armes chimiques pourraient être rapidement hors d 'état de nuire .
mais la guerre va-t-elle pour autant s 'arrêter ?
afin de s 'adapter à une conjoncture économique jugée très difficile dans le transport aérien , air france avait dévoilé un plan de départs volontaires en septembre .
professeur de science politique et directeur de l ’ institut d ’ études européennes de l ’ université saint-louis à bruxelles international - à la veille des élections européennes de 2014 , espérons que les événements de lampedusa permettront de réintroduire un peu de clairvoyance et , osons le terme , d 'humanité dans les débats sur l 'immigration irrégulière .
nobel de médecine : ils ont trouvé comment marche le chronopost de nos cellulesdr desmond tutu a reçu un pingouin pour ses 82 ansafp les internautes iraniens exhibent leurs jeans pour se moquer de netanyahutwitter / negarmortazavi arrêtés pour une photo sur facebook : les deux ados libérés avant un procèsgetty vidéola première interview télé de la compagne de moscovici a tenu ses promessesdr cantonale partielle : le fn à 40 % dès le premier tour le parquet fait appel de deux acquittements dans l 'affaire achouiafp le gouvernement renonce à la taxe qui faisait hurler les patrons montebourg n 'a pas bien compris la règle fixée par hollande la femme de valls n 'a jamais donné d 'interview dans la presse espagnoleafp à saint-trop ' , chirac préfère la terrasse , bernadette la messevar matin vidéocette top model ultra connue s 'est essayée au ski nautiquedr acheter le vrai casque de sauron , ça vous dit ? julien 's auctions en images6 ans après , elle est à nouveau élue femme la plus sexyesquirepopulaire vous ne devinerez jamais l 'objet dans lequel cette sculpture a été tailléediem chau tous les dangers du smartphone sur votre santé , en une infographiedr top chef : apprenez à éplucher vos légumes avec florent ladeyn vidéoque se passe-t-il quand un badaud dirige un orchestre ? youtubepopulaire vidéodanse avec les stars : alizée évoque pour la première fois sa rupturecapture tf1 enceinte , elle se prend en photo tous les mois dans la même posesophie starzenski ce qu 'il y a dans certains nuggets ne va pas vous plairegettypopulaire dan diaconescu .
fără televiziune îi va fi greu , deja lumea l-a uitat .
pe de altă parte , această uitare îl ferește de gafe și de supraexpunere .
la momentul oportun se vor găsi suficiente televiziuni care să-i preia mesajele excentrice .
în plus , este o categorie de electorat care nu are lider ( deși traian băsescu încearcă să și-l aproprie ) .
15 % .
nicușor dan / claudiu crăciun .
la alegerile locale nicușor dan a obținut aproape 10 % în bucurești .
modul în care evoluează protestele și gradul de mobilizare prin internet pot produce o combinație de factori care să schimbe situația .
estimez că un „ candidat al pieței ” va trece de 10 % .
elena udrea .
este pohta ce-o pohtește traian băsescu , așa că sunt cele mai mari șanse ca ea să fie candidatul „ dreptei ” .
nu poate spera nici măcar la voturile pe care le-ar obține traian băsescu , adică undeva spre 10 % .
pd nu mai există ca organizație iar traian băsescu nu are o organizație .
presupunând că pd și traian băsescu vor cădea la pace , ceea ce nu este exclus , proiectul său de partid fiind inexistent în ciuda sprijinului masiv și pe față din partea sa .
cel mai probabil , în cel mai optimist scenariu , doamna udrea nu va depăși cu mult 10 % .
mugur isărescu .
este a doua opțiune a lui traian băsescu și a „ dreptei ” .
are însă o problemă cu modul în care a gestionat sistemul bancar , numărul contestațiilor la adresa sa înmulțindu-se .
principala vulnerabilitate o constituie modul în care a gestionat clauzele abuzive din contracte în favoarea băncilor .
fiind „ tehnocrat ” percepția publică asupra sa este mai degrabă de „ premier ” decât de „ președinte ” .
cel mai probabil ar avea un scor sub elena udrea .
sorin oprescu .
game over .
oricum era o candidatură umflată artificial .
șansele sale în afara bucureștiului sunt reduse , iar în bucurești deja are probleme după un al doilea mandat dezastruos asemănător cu cel al lui videanu .
bomboana pe colivă , copilul omorât de maidanezi .
nici măcar mașinăria de vot a psd nu poate face din coadă de câine sită de mătase .
victor ponta .
s-a umplut complet de ridicol cu proiectul roșia montană .
până acum își gestionase foarte bine imaginea publică dar și-a făcut praf tabloul construit cu atâta migală .
candidatura sa din poziția de premier va pune însă probleme , iar o eventuală renunțare la această funcție va pune probleme partidului .
în ciuda mașinăriei de vot a psd , nu cred că ponta ar depăși 25 % .
un sondaj arăta că victor ponta ar lua în jur de 60 % din scorul partidului .
s-a dovedit mult prea slab , un al doilea geoană , care însă nu va beneficia de suportul pnl și nici de antipatia față de traian băsescu , care s-a mai domolit pe măsură ce președintele a devenit irelevant și patetic .
spre deosebire de crin antonescu , care a avut dintotdeauna un scor superior partidului ( o parte din votanți fiind chiar de la psd ) , premierul se bazează doar pe mobilizarea activului de partid .
ținând cont de faptul că unii baroni sunt suficient de puternici încât să nu depindă de guvern , este posibil ca mobilizarea lor să fie mai redusă .
după atâția ani de criză și reducere continuă a banilor de la centru , baronii pot pricepe un lucru elementar : nu mai sunt bani și trebuie să se reorienteze .
caz în care și guvernarea și președinția să nu mai reprezintă o miză .
mru / predoiu .
sunt două avataruri ale aceluiași personaj : „ birocratul ajuns la nivelul maxim de incompetență ” .
nesemnificativi .
alegerile prezidențiale au ocazia de a confirma niște tendințe care vor reconfigura foarte mult spațiul politic : reducerea importanței ruralului .
de ceva vreme , ponderea populației din zona rurală în totalul populației scade .
va crește importanța internetului .
facebook a scos în stradă în bucurești 10.000 de persoane , 6000 la cluj , performanțe de care partidele politice nu au fost în stare .
un candidat facebook are un potențial ridicat , cu toate șansele de a depăși 10 % .
prelungirea protestelor afectează imaginea lui victor ponta .
protestele au marcat „ trezirea ” generației post-revoluționare , cei care au crescut și s-au maturizat în libertate .
generația 20-30 are cu totul alte idealuri și aspirații , la care partidele încă nu au găsit răspuns .
activiștii de tip vechi a căror singură tehnică de convingere era găleata cu ulei și zahăr vor deveni irelevanți . „ competențele ” lor nu mai sunt cerute de piață .
aceste evoluții dezavantajează psd , deoarece apare o nouă „ stângă ” , cu un mesaj mai modern și mai adecvat , și pd , tributar unui autoritarism desuet , de tip vechi , care susține vocal o „ dreaptă ” de tip neoliberal , opusă ideilor și aspirațiilor tinerei generații .
oricâte greșeli ar face usl , pd nu poate profita .
psd are o poveste de succes economic , perioada adrian năstase , în care , economic vorbind , în românia s-a trăit bine .
pnl are perioada tăriceanu în care „ economia duduia ” .
vorbim acum de percepții publice .
pd a intrat în istorie prin tăieri de salarii și creșteri de taxe .
perioada pd nu are nici o poveste de succes , în nici un domeniu ( din nou , vorbim de percepții publice ) , ceea ce face greu ca cineva să aibă nostalgii pediste și să și-i dorească înapoi la guvernare .
alegerile costă .
autoritățile locale nu au interese directe în alegerile europarlamentare și prezidențiale , deci roi este negativ pentru ei .
din aceasta cauză , vor fi avantajați candidați votați din convingere .
« previous “ geopolitics of xxi century will be cosmo-humanist in its essence ” – about the power of information and policy of millennium iii with acad .
albert ignatenko two key sites in sevenoaks could be bulldozed and transformed into dozens of new homes.an application has been submitted to the district ...
sevenoaks resident ann perris had her phone line and broadband wiped out and then her driveway blocked , after part of a council-owned tree ...
the president of benin took advantage of françois hollande ’ s presence at the investiture of ibrahim boubacar keita to have a discreet discussion with him about the talon affair . ( ... )
the idea of anchoring a re-gasification barge off benin ’ s coast is gaining traction .
and local investors have the means to put pressure on the government . ( ... )
a professor at cheikh anta diop university in dakar , senegal , oumar ndongo has been ( ... )
in a report last year , the tax foundation also decried the holidays as a way to mask other , broader tax issues .
state legislators ’ pay is protected even if employees are furloughed california ’ s constitution requires budgets passed by the legislature to be balanced , so chiang decided lawmakers had not met the requirements to get paid .
he docked $ 583,000 in legislative pay , and 12 days later , lawmakers passed a new budget .
antigua-and barbuda gets top rank in commonwealth for access to ict new $ 3 million technology center opens as it hub of the caribbean “ we will go right up to the point of extreme idiocy , but we won ’ t cross it , ” the oracle of omaha told cnbc ’ s “ squawk box ” last week .
obama is unimpeachable .
the gop is two terms from dying off completely .
let them try it. alsaxe : and the dems undersatnd government and the nation & # 039 ; s business ? .... seems as buffet is a smart guy , no doubt , but his billions are tied up in the financial markets , not putting in food on the table for the middle and lower classes as for buffet the guy has pledged to give 99 % of his wealth to charity when he dies .
not to mention - buffet is also a financial conservative. secondsromania & # 8211 ; china : from an agenda of good intentions to concrete results ? | cadran politic © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpresscaribbean news now ! : news from nicaragua january 4 , 2013 let there be no doubt , if gonsalves had managed to ram home the new constitution and dismiss the queen , we would be deeply in the do-do right now .
hola , mis amigos , permite hablar ...
alianza bolivariana para los pueblos de nuestra américa .
bp trial debate : how much oil spilled in the gulf ? cbs newshow to measure a deep sea oil spill ; the next stage of the bp trial began mondaynola.com - by mark wallersee all 158 sourcesrelated british petroleum site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeoinvesting in fund managements in the western world , guidelines and pitfalls concept of risk .
in reality it is easy .
it is the probability of loss , absolute or relative .
the second major job of a financial planner is to understand his client ’ s attitude to risk .
without understanding this he can ’ t develop a financial plan that will & ldquo ; satisfy & rdquo ; his client .
to work out a clients ’ attitude to risk a planner asks a number of questions like , how would you feel if you lost 20 % of your money in one year ?
how about you were not showing a profit but rather a loss of 20 % after 5 years ?
now the sad reality is most people who go to a financial planner or million $ $ scheme , do so out of greed or need .
and whether they realize it or not they will mislead the planner as to the attitude that they have to risk .
so it is really a bit of a waste of time asking these sorts of questions .
as in reality we are all pre-programmed to a point with an attitude to risk that is constant .
4 / .
and the final and by far the smallest group : & ldquo ; ok it ’ s a bum deal , bit of a shame , stupid me should have seen the writing on the wall earlier .
where is the next poker table as despite it all i still like the game . & rdquo ; the biggest mistake an investor can make in investing is not learning to move on .
winning and moving on is best but not moving on is worse that losing and moving on .
it is the moving on that allows you to use the time in front of you .
not moving on is time and life theft .
now if you are investing , which character type do you want to give your money to ?
the management of vortec were the optimist type .
the best managers of money are the last group , losing and moving on is ok so long as they don ’ t habitually make the same dumb decisions that caused the loss .
the worst fund manager is one who does not know when to move on or get the ball rolling so watch out kiddos you could be next .
so now you see the crisis helps the banks and bank execs not the taxpayers new customers can create an account so that you can shop faster in the future and keep track of orders you have made in the past .
speaking on behalf of the company ’ s support to education in the country , airtel ’ s dodoma zonal sales manager stephene akyoo said : & ldquo ; airtel is providing these books for the purpose of improving the quality of education in the country and also to bring in economic and development freedom to the communities . & rdquo ; using a mobile device ?
go to m.huffingtonpost.com for huffpost mobile .
industry and trade minister dr abdallah kigoda made the remark in dar es salaam on wednesday during the nigerian national day celebrations .
two investors have teamed up to inject funds into a dar es salaam-based firm as they seek to help in improving cargo handling at the dar es salaam port .
this was said over the weekend in dar es salaam by a farmer identified as santulo mwaikela when explaining development and challenges facing the agricultural sector in the region .
under the agreement , at least 10,000mt of maize will be transported from mbeya to dar es salaam and 10,000mt of fertiliser will be ferried from dar es salaam port to mbeya , for onward shipment to malawi .
crb deletes 4 contractors for failing to adhere to regulations the call was made on wednesday by the mwanza regional commissioner , evarist ndikilo , when inaugurating world tourism day which is being observed in mwanza at the national level . & ldquo ; i did not believe it when i looked under the crown and realised that i had won myself a motorcycle .
dealers in lubricants have said they are ready to support the government in its fight to remove substandard products in the market in order to save the life of vehicles and machines .
tanga cement company pesents two classrooms , desks to mtwara school tanga cement company ( tcc ) limited has constructed and handed over a block of two classrooms , toilets and desks to mangowele primary school in mtwara region at the weekend .
the government has said it will ensure that air and travel industries are not overtaxed so as to further strengthen and attract more investments in the sub-sectors .
the minister of state in prime minister ’ s office responsible for investment and privatisation , dr mary nagu made the observation yesterday in dar es salaam and attributed the fact is mainly due to lower investments in sugar industry .
the imported furniture that tanzanians are going for is said not to be durable although it is very expensive .
the epza director general , dr adelhelm meru revealed this to journalists recently in dar es salaam when commenting on the progress made by the authority for over the past six years .
the tanzania revenue athourity in mbeya region has impounded a huge consignment of sachets of alcohol smuggled into the country through dubious means .
the new leadership is seen as the hope for the chamber which was said to be digging its own pit .
preparedness drill set for this afternoon sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 18 am edt worley street east of stadium to close sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 18 am edt writers eye self-publishing sun oct 6 , 2013 04 : 18 am edt walk to end alzheimer ’ s raises $ 60,000 to fight disease sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 18 pm edt walk to end alzheimer ’ s breaks records sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt pulaski county crash injures six sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 18 pm edt st. marys records go digital mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt flu season on horizon mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 18 am edt a dance in the clouds mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 18 am edt the singing butcher mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 18 am edt new lu president wants a stronger university sun oct 6 , 2013 08 : 18 am edt restoring the ozark chinquapin : top producer of food for wildlife threatened by chestnut blight mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt spanish firm caf will supply kc ’ s streetcars fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt kansas bioscience authority hires new cfo fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt top 10 college majors lead to high employment , big paychecks and job growth fri oct 4 , 2013 12 : 18 pm edt da : motorcyclist had key role in nyc suv brawl sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt pcso : man kills mother claiming god told him to do it sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt ku revives plans for stadium renovation sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt baby lisa ’ s parents beg for answers sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt bigfoot believers come out in oklahoma sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 18 pm edt memorial for fallen smw footballer set sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt ku case shows how backlash from professors ’ remarks can inflame politicians sun sep 29 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt check before you click ’ yes ’ on a bargain obamacare plan mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt sprint reshuffles sales organization with exit of two execs fri oct 4 , 2013 8 : 18 pm edt twitter ’ s evan williams may be worth $ 1b after ipo fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt october brings variety of festivals to the ozarks sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt attorney general koster sues telemarketing company sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt experts warn about obamacare scams mon sep 30 , 2013 8 : 18 pm edt who teaches the kids ?
mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 18 am edt missouri ’ s day care licensing law has stayed much the same for decades mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 18 am edt ’ biggest loser ’ to feature springfield woman mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 18 am edt greene county man charged in child molestation mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 18 am edt judge rules larry conners may work in radio , not tv fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt regional chamber yet to reveal ceo reagans compensation fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt on the market : the most expensive homes in clayton fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt ’ grandpa gang ’ trying to stop vandals at park in alton mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt 9-year-old boy drowns in downtown hotel ’ s pool sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt mo .
society of anethesiologists opposes use of propofol in executions mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt anonymous tip leads to arrest in hit and run accident at school sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt st. louisans paying least at the pump sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt 9 year old boy drowns in downtown hotel pool sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt chilling secrets reside in ozarks ’ secluded hills mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt kc man to be sentenced for supporting al-qaida mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt man found shot to death in jennings mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt u.s. attorney ’ s office furloughing workers fri oct 4 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt illinois ’ wic program continuing through end of october fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 18 pm edt fisher ’ s ’ fresh start ’ results in 34-20 win over jaguars sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt gov ’ t shutdown enters 2nd week , no end in sight mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 18 am edt oil falls toward $ 103 as us debt deadline nears mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 18 am edt how the impasses in washington might play out mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 18 am edt an " expedition " can be any journey undertaken by an individual or organized group of people with a definite unique objective , be it for the purpose of discovery , science , or fundraising .
democratic republic of the congo + 2 others la rdc demande au hcr et à kigali d & # 039 ; expliquer l & # 039 ; arrivée de 200 familles venues du rwanda kinshasa , 2 octobre 2013 ( afp ) - kinshasa a demandé mercredi au haut-commissariat de l 'onu pour les réfugiés ( hcr ) et à kigali d 'expliquer l 'arrivée récente dans l 'est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) de quelque 200 familles en provenance du rwanda voisin .
world + 5 others résultats inférieurs en matière de santé pour les minorités nairobi , 2 octobre 2013 ( irin ) - selon un nouveau rapport publié par minority rights group international ( mrg ) , les minorités présentent des résultats en matière de santé inférieurs au reste de la population .
goma , 1 octobre 2013 ( afp ) - deux cents familles arrivées du rwanda se sont installées ces jours-ci dans la zone contrôlée par les rebelles du m23 dans l 'est de la république démocratique du congo , a-t-on appris mardi de sources concordantes .
rwanda + 1 other la caritas rwanda a apporté une assistance en vivres et non vivres aux expulsés de tanzanie lundi 09 septembre 2013 , la caritas rwanda , en collaboration avec la caritas diocésaine de kibungo , a apporté une assistance en matériel non vivres aux rapatriés expulsés de tanzanie domiciliés dans le camp de kigarama , dans le district de kirehe , province de l ’ est .
le matériel distribué était constitué d ’ habits , de casseroles , d ’ assiettes , de cuillers , des couvertures , des jerricans , etc .
minister for agriculture , food security and co-operatives christopher chiza told mps that the new law would pave the way for the country to use its available land resources for the sustainable development of irrigation .
a primera vista , fatima aparentaba tener unos 4 o 5 meses .
pero , en realidad , acababa de cumplir su primer año de vida .
estaba entre los 126.000 niños con desnutrición aguda grave tratados en uno de los 425 centros nutricionales establecidos por el ministerio de salud de chad en 2012 como parte de la expansión de la atención en todo el sahel .
se llegó a cientos de miles de niños con la atención necesaria para salvar sus vidas .
tristemente , no se pudo llegar a otros muchos . * * il faut 1,4 milliard de dollars é.-u. maintenant pour les enfants qui vivent dans des situations de crise humanitaire , affirme l ’ unicef * * even though crude oil is trading near multiyear highs , the share prices of oil refiners are sinking fast , and the price at the pump may follow .
firewalk succcess was ‘ mind over matter ’ , says great horwood resident soco international plc gauged less than hoped for oil rates at the lideka east marine-1 well on a postsalt structure updip from its lideka marine-1 well that found shows of oil in the sendji is3 formation on the shallow-water marine xi block offshore & # 8230 ; st. joseph tops darien in battle of unbeatens sun oct 6 , 2013 08 : 09 am edt susan granger ’ s review of ’ salinger ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 09 am edt official : woman killed in dc chase was delusional sat oct 5 , 2013 12 : 09 am edt advocate : con ed should reimburse metro-north riders fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 09 pm edt new canaan routs warde fri oct 4 , 2013 10 : 09 pm edt sandy ’ s lessons : fairfielders ’ spirit strong , feds ’ regs frustrating fri oct 4 , 2013 08 : 09 am edt schools to eliminate drama , phys ed coordinators tue jan 8 , 2013 10 : 09 pm est two motorcyclists hurt in coventry crash sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 09 pm edt huskies to play a game in bridgeport sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 09 pm edt norwalk man pleads guilty in hole-in-one scam sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 09 pm edt the dart : a love of food and family yields a cookbook sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 09 pm edt gun accident maims stamford man sat oct 5 , 2013 8 : 09 pm edt stamford reps look to give early warning on reval sat oct 5 , 2013 6 : 09 pm edt end of a ’ record ’ run : sally ’ s place goes out on a high note fri oct 4 , 2013 2 : 09 pm edt we second jk , political will core to realisation of mdgs na editor but no matter how urgently the movers and shakers of the world economy disburse the funds , if high rank leaders as well as public officials lack the political will to address poverty in the interest of the entire nation , then we will only have ourselves to blame for our failure .
tom cotton is a man of character , a veteran and a conservative . i believe he is a better choice than pryor . mark pryor is a democrat first . i am a voter a i will not vote for pryor . he 's botched hc and rural broadband internet access as well as punted on saving rural post offices .
the financial media weigh in on the latest big social-media ipo .
and which niche chip stocks are set to rebound ?
all stateline stories and graphics may be republished in print or online by anyone for free .
all we ask is that you follow a few rules : • all stories must be attributed to stateline • any use of stateline material — in print or online — must include the following disclosure statement : “ stateline is a nonpartisan , nonprofit news service of the pew charitable trusts that provides daily reporting and analysis on trends in state policy . ” • stateline material may not be edited or changed , except for style reasons or to shorten for length • any use online must include a link back to our website • stateline material may not be republished wholesale or automatically without permissionstateline content is published daily at stateline.org and can be found on lexisnexis , factiva and news outlets served by mcclatchy-tribune information services . subscribe to our daily and weekly e-mails .
ollove was a long-time journalist at the baltimore sun , first as an enterprise buy gold now .
the usa cannot help all the institutions & sub prime has hit other countries .
the financial collapse is being sorted out as now gm & ford are finding out gold , silver , as well as savings in the bank are the way to go but be ready to pull your money out and invest in gold .
wait until everything is about to collapse .
[ read george soros crises report ] [ thailand in crises ] [ depression looms 2011 ] [ depression safeguards ] [ investment property guide ] [ borrowing money ] [ using thai company to hold property ] [ best option for foreigners buying ] [ more thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2011 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs tell us what you think festive for fall sun oct 6 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt artists showcased in bric art 4 exhibit sun oct 6 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt return of the flamingos sat oct 5 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt store makeover : raley ’ s remodel nears completion fri oct 4 , 2013 10 : 19 pm edt white pine sheriff ’ s blotter fri sep 20 , 2013 10 : 19 am edt motorcyclist dies in crash on desert inn and joe w. brown sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 19 pm edt two fugitives arrested in las vegas fri oct 4 , 2013 10 : 19 pm edt coroner ids north las vegas man killed in motorcycle accident sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 19 pm edt panic ’ s urie among rockin ’ mormon kids mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt openings and closings : bad news on the strip , good news in the suburbs mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt lauded ’ homeowner ’ s bill of rights ’ now being called ineffective mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt las vegas native wins big at national parachuting competition sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt fly on the wall gets swatted away mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt when you do good work in las vegas , you get noticed for it mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt comfort over caviar : how to wine and dine clients in a recovering economy mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt commissioner not giving up on tax increase for metro fri oct 4 , 2013 8 : 19 pm edt state bar of nevada to examine whittemore sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 19 pm edt seed money for nevada sesquicentennial fair ok ’ d sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt furloughed federal employees helpless as congress bickers sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 19 am edt heroes ’ emotional homecoming mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt web weather forecast for monday mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 19 am edt motorcyclist arraigned on assault charges in nyc biker-suv brawl mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 19 am edt sunday web weather sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 19 pm edt another motorcyclist arraigned on assault charges in nyc biker-suv brawl sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 19 pm edt ’ gravity ’ soars to top of weekend box office mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt man shoots gun inside a sparks bar as a warning sun oct 6 , 2013 04 : 19 am edt driver of hit and run in sparks identified sat oct 5 , 2013 6 : 19 pm edt driver of hit and run in sparks is identified sat oct 5 , 2013 4 : 19 pm edt seed money for nevada sesquicentennial fair ok ’ d sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 19 am edt speaking to the guardian yesterday in dar es salaam , heslb director of information , education and communication , cosmas mwaisobwa said the loan board has closed its doors and that no more sponsorships will be offered because it has exhausted its budget . & ldquo ; i think most of us here deserve to get the loan & hellip ; & rdquo ; said a student identified by the single name of john adding that & ldquo ; & hellip ; if heslb has run out of money it is better it declares it publicly instead of saying that we are not qualified for the loan , ’ ’ ice loss from the greenland and antarctic ice sheets is rising to the top as the main contributor to higher sea level .
a road in dar es salaam being constructed .
( file photo ) the ink is barely dry on twitter 's ipo filing and wall street analysts are already weighing in on the company 's soon-to-be-public stock .
" while we do not view the watch as a likely needle-mover for apple in terms of revenue in 2014 , we put it in a similar category as the ( rumored ) television in that it could demonstrate apple 's ability to innovate ( good for the multiple ) and potentially lead to a more meaningful new product category in wearable tech , " munster wrote .
but if you ask siri about it , you 'll get evasive answers .
google on wednesday added hulu plus to the content lineup on its low-cost chromecast device .
hulu plus joins netflix ( nflx ) and google 's own youtube and google play on the gadget .
chromecast is a $ 35 dongle that plugs into the hdmi slot on hdtvs and is controlled with an app on google android or apple smartphones and tablets .
president obama compares obamacare rollout glitches to apple ios 7 21st century fox3d printing3d systems3d tv4k tvaccessorie saccessoriesaceractivisionadobe systemsadvertisingaereoaffordable care actakamai technologiesalibabaamazonamazon retailamazon.comamcamdandroidandroid phonesannual meetingantitrustaolapollo groupappleapple retailapplied materialsarmasusat & tatmelautodeskavago technologiesavid technologyb lackberrybarack obamabarnes & noblebest buybest buy store within a storebill gatesblackberryboxeebroadcombuzzfeedcbscelebritiesceo firingsceo tim cookceschinachina mobilechipschromebookchromecastcirrus logiccisco systemsclearwirecloudcoinstarcomcastconsumer electronicscorningcox enterprisescypress semiconductordelldemand mediadigital innovationsdirectvdiscovery communicationsdish networkdisneydropboxearbudsebayebookse-bookseconomyelectronic artselectronics artselon muskemcergenespnexonefacebookflextronicsfrancefriday funniesftcgamestopgarmingeneral electricgeneral motorsgooglegoogle glassgrouponhboheadsetshewlett-packa rdhewlett-packardholiday shoppinghoneywellht chtchuluhyperloopibmimaxinfosysinsurance exchangesintelinteractivecorpinteractivecorp.intuitinvensenseiosipadiphoneiphone competitorsipodiposirobotit jobsitunesjeff bezoskickstarterkindlelarry ellisonlarry pagelenovolglg displaylinkedinlinuxlogitechlytromade in usamade in usamakerbotmarissa mayermarketingmarvellmasayoshi sonmattelmicron technologymicros oftmicrosoftmobile adsmonotypemotorolamoviesn iken okiancrnetappnetflixnewest galaxy phonenews corp.news medianews medianewspapersnikenintendonok ianokiansantt docomonuancenuance communicationsnvidianxp semiconductorsobamacareobamacare glitchesonline advertisingoracleouterwallpalo alto networkspanasonicpandorapandora mediapaypalpcsperegrine semiconductorproto labsqualcommrackspaceredboxretailretail partnershipsrf micro devicesrobotsrokusalesforce.comsamsungsamsung and best buysamsung smartphonesandisksecsecuritysheryl sandbergsiriskyworks solutionssmart phonessmartphonesmartphone ssmartphonessmartwatchessocial mediasocial networksocial networkingsoftbanksolarcitysonyspotifysprintsprint nextelsquarestaplesstartupssteve ballmersteve jobsstmicroelectronicsstockrstratasysstreaming musicstreaming videosurfacesurveillancesurveysynapticstab letstabletstaiwan semiconductortake-two interactive softwareteradatatesla motorstim cooktime warnertime warner cabletivot-mobiletoshibatoyotatravelzootruliatumblrtwitterultra hdultra hdtvvalueclickventure capitalverifone systemsverizonverizon wirelessviacomvideo gamesvisavodafonewal-martwalt disneywashingtonwearable computerswikileakswikipediawindowswireless spectrumwwdcxoomyahooyoutubezillowzynga etransform africa : the transformational use of information and communication technologies in africa le golfe de guinée : la nouvelle zone à haut risque evaluation de l ’ action de déblaiement et de dépollution des quartiers affectés par l ’ explosion du dépôt de munitions de mpila à brazzaville congo + 3 others des experts du congo , cameroun et gabon procèdent à l ’ évaluation in vitro des antipaludiques des experts du congo-brazzaville , du cameroun et du gabon participent , du 9 au 10 septembre à brazzaville , à un atelier d ’ évaluation in vitro des antipaludiques visant à harmoniser les techniques et à partager des données .
l ’ atelier est organisé par la fondation congolaise pour la recherche médicale ( fcrm ) , sous le thème : « culture in vitro de plasmodium falciparum et tests de chimio sensibilité » .
le cerf alloue plus de 19,8 millions de dollars pour des programmes d ’ urgence au second trimestre le fonds central d ’ intervention d ’ urgence des nations unies ( cerf ) a alloué au cours des trois derniers mois un total de 19,8 millions de dollars au congo , au mali , à la république centrafricaine ( rca ) , au sénégal et au tchad .
cette dotation porte à 47,9 millions de dollars le montant total alloué en 2013 à l ’ afrique de l ’ ouest et du centre .
democratic republic of the congo + 7 others rapport du secrétaire général sur les activités du bureau régional des nations unies pour l ’ afrique centrale et les régions touchées par l ’ armée de résistance du seigneur ( s / 2013 / 297 ) world + 10 others la bad lance de nouvelles autoroutes de l ’ information congo + 12 others evaluation de l ’ action de déblaiement et de dépollution des quartiers affectés par l ’ explosion du dépôt de munitions de mpila à brazzaville l ’ évaluation a été confié au centre international de déminage humanitaire de genève ( cidhg ) agissant en partenariat avec le programme universitaire indépendant small arms survey .
le mandat comprenait : l 'évaluation de l 'efficacité des activités de dépollution de la zone de mpila à brazzaville ; l 'évaluation des processus de coordination entre les autorités nationales , l 'équipe de l ’ action contre les mines des nations unies ( unmat ) , les partenaires d 'exécution , les bailleurs de fonds et les autres parties prenantes ; cameroon + 5 others la délégation régionale du cicr à yaoundé établie à yaoundé ( cameroun ) depuis 1992 , la délégation régionale du cicr pour l ’ afrique centrale soutient la mise en œuvre du droit international humanitaire en angola , au cameroun , au gabon , en guinée équatoriale , en république du congo et à sao tomé-et-principe .
elle apporte également protection et assistance aux personnes déplacées par la violence , réalise des activités de rétablissement des liens familiaux , visite des détenus et soutient le développement des sociétés nationales de la croix-rouge de la région .
democratic republic of the congo + 11 others rapport du secrétaire général sur les activités du bureau régional des nations unies pour l ’ afrique centrale et les zones où sévit l ’ armée de résistance du seigneur ( s / 2012 / 923 ) my top 10 favorite things at the fall festival sat oct 5 , 2013 6 : 22 pm edt wnc road report mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 22 am edt roundabouts out , red lights in for leicester mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 22 am edt bobcats visit mission children ’ s hospital mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt wnc democrats hold fundraiser sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt kkk holds rally in gettysburg sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt today ’ s traffic : wet streets , be careful mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt nc raised ruger jobs offer as gun maker held out mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 22 am edt blessed are the animals sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt a place for champions sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt victim ’ s father : suspect not obeying release terms sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt battle of the bands : perquimans sweeps regionally sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt hopefuls working late to win votes sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt hester now a free man wed aug 14 , 2013 2 : 22 pm edt elimination of waiver creates little stir at bcc wed aug 14 , 2013 12 : 22 pm edt man arrested for shooting his brother wed aug 14 , 2013 12 : 22 pm edt pitts : tea party members are the new confederates sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt council to vote on bid for site sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 22 am edt meet cameron ’ s crew sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 22 am edt man accused of killing his grandmother ’ s live-in caretaker sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 22 pm edt man stabbed on greensboro ’ s bessemer avenue sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 22 am edt us hwy 64 reopens after fatal crash in lexington mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt youth sports organization team up on concussions sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt one dead , two injured in lexington crash sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt shelby man arrested in death of rutherford co. bouncer sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt nc man charged with killing grandmothers caretaker sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt nc man gives up big salary to help less fortunate mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 22 am edt review : ’ hank williams : lost highways ’ is soulful , heartfelt sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt commissary to open sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 22 pm edt new mobile site fri aug 9 , 2013 4 : 22 pm edt one hurt in new bern shooting mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt new bern municipal election set for tuesday sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt kerry assures ceos on us role in asia-pacific mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt oil falls below $ 103 as us debt deadline nears mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt nc man gives up big salary to help less fortunate mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt asheville land developer ’ s fraud trial to start mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 22 am edt boy in louisiana was source of fayetteville school threat sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 22 pm edt week off to soggy start , but cooler temps on the way mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt rainy , cooler temperatures on the way sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 22 pm edt ten to be inducted to raleigh hall of fame sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 22 pm edt da : motorcyclist had key role in nyc suv brawl mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt working without pay mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt pet of the week : sunday , october 9 sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 22 am edt voter turnout might be low on tuesday mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt wesleyan ’ s homecoming a big success sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 22 am edt baby dies after being left in car in greensboro thu oct 3 , 2013 6 : 22 pm edt stateline — best of # statereads : special interests , politics and a lack of leadership to blame for inaction after sandusky scandal “ 210 rio grande : the epicenter for utah 's homeless ” – the deseret news & # 8220 ; i am young , you are rich , we are like americans & # 8221 ; « previousromânia – china : de la o agendă de bune intenţii la rezultate concrete ? © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpresscontacts and services - the new york times for a possible correction , or to reach the web site 's editorial staff , you can send an e-mail .
the newsroomnews tips | the arts | business day | the foreign desk | the metro desk | the national desk | sports | the washington bureau most reporters can be reached directly by clicking the byline of any article by that reporter .
mojacar councillor jessica simpson has issued a statement announcing that all those over the age of 65 registered in mojacar can apply for a ‘ free travel ’ bus pass for the local service .
to apply for one you must go up to the town hall with : photocopy of nie volante de empadronamiento ( padron register certificate , you can apply for this at the town hall if you do not have one ) .
world + 2 others après la guinée équatoriale , l ’ angola contribue à son tour au fonds de solidarité pour la sécurité alimentaire en afrique 10 millions de dollars pour financer les actions de sécurité alimentaire dans la région 20 juin 2013 , rome - l 'angola vient d 'annoncer son intention de verser 10 millions de dollars au fonds de solidarité pour la sécurité alimentaire en afrique , que gère la fao , afin de promouvoir la sécurité alimentaire en afrique .
le ministère angolais de l 'agriculture et du développement m. afonso pedro canga a annoncé ce don lors du lancement officiel du fonds en marge de la 38e conférence de la fao , l 'organe directeur souverain de l 'organisation .
world + 1 other le fonds fiduciaire africain pour la sécurité alimentaire devient réalité la guinée équatoriale est le premier pays à contribuer , à hauteur de 30 millions de dollars , à cette initiative de l ’ afrique à l ’ afrique pour lutter contre la faim 22 février 2013 , malabo / rome - la guinée équatoriale a fait don aujourd 'hui de 30 millions de dollars à un nouveau fonds de solidarité qui vise à mobiliser les ressources financières de l 'afrique pour renforcer la sécurité alimentaire de la région .
world + 2 others l ’ angola contribuera au fonds de solidarité pour la sécurité alimentaire en afrique le président angolais l ’ a annoncé lors de son entretien avec m. graziano da silva 30 janvier 2013 , luanda - la république d 'angola contribuera au fonds de solidarité pour la sécurité alimentaire en afrique , destiné à stimuler les efforts visant à l 'éradication de la faim sur le continent , a annoncé aujourd 'hui le président angolais , m. josé eduardo dos santos .
" l 'angola ne peut demeurer étranger à la lutte contre la faim " , a déclaré le président lors de son entretien à luanda avec m. josé graziano da silva , directeur général de la fao .
" angola cannot be absent from the fight against hunger , " said president dos santos during a meeting in luanda with the director-general of the un food and agriculture organization , josé graziano da silva .
are the reports of a syrian ' sex jihad ' a hoax ?
us action against st lucia may be connected to visa revocation last july ’ s replacement of mines minister adama toungaraby jean-claude brou has not lowered the tension between the ivorian authorities and the country ’ s mining companies . ( ... )
although he is now nearly 80 , almost five years too old to run again , henri konan bédié is far from ready to bow out gracefully as leader of the parti démocratique de côte d 'ivoire ( pdci ) , ivory coast 's former single party . ( ... )
the firm environnement technologie cote d ’ ivoire ( evitech ci ) founded by ivoirian ( ... )
" the police arrested the director of netpress on a warrant issued by the prosecutor of the republic and which had as motive ' treason ' , " hit kampala , " a netpress journalist told afp on condition of anonymity . " since monday morning , the anxiety has been palpable in bujumbura for all those imprisoned for his work .
in september 2008 he was arrested on charges of a spokesman for shebab has warned burundi it could be next on the list .
the country 's army said it had stepped up security in response .
one sample twitter offering — “ obamacare is a train wreck ” — is a common refrain for speaker john a. boehner .
the arc adds a new industry to its cottage mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt firefighters aid bicyclist who crashed in boise foothills sunday sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 11 pm edt cenarrusa buried back home in bellevue sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 11 pm edt cenarrusa interment ceremony sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 11 am edt wildfires : ’ something bigger is going on ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt conference focuses on the importance of movement in the classroom mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 11 am edt a world war ii veteran who cut hair for 70 years mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 11 am edt hotter and bigger : the face of wildfires in idaho is changing mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 11 am edt from shutdown to debt default ?
mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt the new war on terror mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt a rare flash ?
sun oct 6 , 2013 05 : 11 am edt chubbuck welcomes idaho ’ s first diverging diamond interchange sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 11 pm edt you can make a difference in pocatello thu oct 3 , 2013 11 : 11 pm edt romney says he won ’ t run for president again thu oct 3 , 2013 1 : 11 pm edt isu homecoming events thu oct 3 , 2013 01 : 11 am edt stinker armed robbery suspects ’ in police custody fri oct 4 , 2013 3 : 11 pm edt caldwell national merit semifinalist to attend byu mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 11 am edt hundreds turn out to honor cenarrusa at funeral sun oct 6 , 2013 3 : 11 pm edt doctor network exec testifies in hospital lawsuit sun oct 6 , 2013 1 : 11 pm edt la coroner ’ s office ids jet crash passenger sat oct 5 , 2013 9 : 11 pm edt songwriter heads home to sandpoint sun oct 6 , 2013 1 : 11 pm edt board ponders training , arming lposd staff sat oct 5 , 2013 1 : 11 pm edt waters grow choppy for state boating law fri oct 4 , 2013 1 : 11 pm edt there are cries for other caribbean governments to invest in liat – arguably , if they had any confidence in liat ’ s board , they might do so – but it appears they do not !
if that is the case , then the failed board , the business model and the ownership structure has to change .
the problem is that liat is a tax collector for the governments , 50 or 60 % of every ticket goes to governments as taxes and tariffs .
brunton tells us a lot , he confirms that liat is subsidised , so what is the crap coming from gonsalves about cal being subsidised , remember that rubbish , nose in the garbish bin again .
he tells us we must cut back on destinations and routes .
he tells us a lot in that article , i recommend you all read it for yourselves .
the acquisition had been approved by the government , the board had wanted to buy bombardier aircraft .
[ its not sure if brunton negotiated the atr deal and in doing so advised the government accordingly ] .
engarnaibor village resident in the district lameck ole moent claimed they have been giving tip offs to one wildlife officer ( name withheld ) on poaching but failed to do anything about it . the said they suspected him of being an accomplice in the illegal business .
james omilio of kiserian village said the state of poaching in the district was appalling . & ldquo ; sometimes poaching is conducted in broad daylight by people well known in longido township . & rdquo ; & ldquo ; considering the fact that fingers are also pointed at me over the state of poaching in the district by the residents of the surrounding villages , i can not speak anything .
it is better to remain silent , & rdquo ; laizer added . & ldquo ; it is true that longido is one of the areas with an appalling state of poaching .
but we are doing all our best to combat the vice , & rdquo ; he said .
located in the beautiful masai steppe , the lake natron game controlled area is marked by the two volcanoes , mount gelai and lengai .
we do link to other websites we think you may enjoy but we are not responsible for the practices , or content of , those websites .
in addition to order processing needs , we may send an occasional promotional electronic newsletter with offers and information we think may be of interest to you .
if you do not wish to receive these newsletters you may unsubscribe at the bottom of the email .
by ben levisohnthe latest trend in emerging-market exchange-traded funds is to leave out the biggest countries .
but the focus should be on companies , not countries .
by reshma kapadia latam airlines got off to a bumpy start after it was formed by a merger last year .
but now it looks to be working out the problems .
why the stock could jump 20 % or more .
select an item and use the middle arrows to add or remove it from your routine .
according to ndiyo , gcla would want to have a list of their customers since it is the custodian of all chemical dealers .
7.10-19 : 01 tribute is provided to commemoration of napoleon ’ s armenian bodyguard roustam raza in 7.10-16 : 52 iranian mp met hagop pakradounian as p5 + 1 countries scheduled to hold talks on 7.10-11 : 32 new sports ground opens in karabakh due to françois rochebloine 's assistance for you karabakh is just territory but for us it is sacred motherland : serzh sargsyan the president of the republic of armenia , the chairman of the national security council of the republic of armenia serzh sargsyan convoked a session of the national security the president of the republic of armenia serzh sargsyan sent a congratulatory message to the president of the 200 new vacancies to open in gyumri due to diaspora armeniansnegotiations for new contract on gas prices are still in progress : armenia ’ s prime minister cultural event to be organized in shirakambassador of poland attends reopening of kindergarten in bjnigyumri prepares for “ cis cultural capital ” program events bako sahakyan introduces settlement of karabakh-azerbaijani conflict to listeners of new sports ground opens in karabakh due to françois rochebloine 's assistance tribute is provided to commemoration of napoleon ’ s armenian bodyguard roustam raza in ellen degeneres to host 2014 oscars " pregomesh " by sirusho to represent armenia in ogae song contestfilm dedicated to mark saghatelyan ’ s memory to be shown on august 1 about us | partners | links | advertise with us | careers he was speaking at a farewell media roundtable questions and answers session in dar es salaam yesterday .
in reference to the first part of his advice which was directed to the government he acknowledged and commended efforts done and initiatives planned but called for fast tracking of the processes involved .
as to the second part , the envoy is of the opinion that tanzanians must embrace the spirit of responsibility towards each other ’ s wellbeing and come to one another ’ s aid beyond family support .
in total these departments inject usd 750million annually into the country and so far all the last three leaderships of the us have consecutively visited the country highlighting its position on the world map politically , economically and socially .
the night of her " snl " performance , cyrus tweeted photos from the set and after-party .
check out cyrus ' tweets below .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved .
“ it ’ s time to take this issue head on and deal with it in our homes .
and the best way to start is with new residential construction , ” krist told kwbe radio .
bharatanatyam performed in ananya dance festival 2013 in new delhi " very slight chance " for la nina or el nino development during next one or two seasons : wmo australia pm pledges to finalize fta with china in 12 months mauritius researchers say green tea and pawpaw can prevent diabetes according to mbeya regional police commander , diwani athumani , the businessmen did not heed the rc ’ s call for restraint and calmness but instead resolved to violent demonstration and police had to use teargas canisters to disperse the rioters along the tanzania- zambia highway and in the commotion at least 105 persons were arrested mostly in mwanjelwa , soweto and uyole . & ldquo ; the situation is now stabilising but we know there are a few criminal elements seeking to take advantage of the situation , but we are prepared to deal with them and residents can rest assured the situation is under control & hellip ; & rdquo ; the commander reassured mbeya residents .
speaking to the guardian in a telephone interview , tra director of education and taxpayer services richard kayombo clarified that the sale of efds has been tenured to 11 suppliers and tra has no mandate over the sellers .
however , not all businessmen are required to use efds only those who are not vat registered with an annual turnover of 14m / - or above .
israël a prévenu qu ’ il réagirait si la livraison de missiles russes est tension perceptible au moyen-orient après des révélations qu 'aurait fait le bashar el assad aurait fait ces déclarations dans une interview accordée à al-manar , une chaine de télévision proche du mouvement shiite libanais si cette cargaison de missiles s-300 est livrée à la syrie , israël a prévenu il est difficile pour l ’ instant de se prononcer sur le contenu exact de mais certaines sources indiquent le président syrien a laissé entendre que la première cargaison de missiles a été reçue et que le reste arrivera bientôt .
israël avait déjà mené cette année 3 frappes aériennes contre la syrie .
le président bashar el assad aurait même prévenu dans son interview contre il aurait aussi confirmé que les combattants du hezbollah opèrent près de la frontière libanaise , où les rebelles sont assiégés dans la ville stratégique de d 'après les activistes de l 'opposition et des associations de défense des droits de l 'homme des centaines de civils ont été blessés et vivent dans des c 'est dans ce contexte que le la principale coalition de l 'opposition a annoncé qu 'elle ne prendra pas part à la conférence internationale sur la syrie la conférence devrait se tenir le mois prochain à genève en suisse .
so who are you , chris baker , and why are you on my radio station ?
we have to do our best ; we owe this generation ’ s veterans and soldiers that .
a jaquar stalks and attacks a croc who was " catching some rays " on a sandbar .
i never would have thought anything would attack a croc but ... i guess it was hungry.real estate exec who led pilot flying j briefly after jimmy haslam bought browns has new job fri sep 20 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt cleveland police looking for suspects in shooting death of a man fri sep 6 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt woods ’ quiet day turns busy as he clinches cup mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt revenge porn websites ensnare ohioans mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 23 am edt his team lost , but delaet hit 2 magical shots sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 23 pm edt wpafb employees get back to work mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt wpafb employees to return to work sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 23 pm edt wet roads cause traffic tie ups on i-70 sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 23 pm edt bowlers throw strikes for hospice sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 23 pm edt rollover caused by speed and wet roads sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt man arrested after shooting out car windows mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 23 am edt air force museum to reopen monday sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 23 pm edt furloughed workers return to work mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt man in custody after bullets shatter car windows mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt gas prices dropping mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 23 am edt consumer alert : obamacare scammers mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 23 am edt furloughed workers preparing to return to work sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 23 pm edt sexual assault reported at bgsu tue aug 27 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt france ’ ready to punish ’ syria tue aug 27 , 2013 2 : 23 pm edt el director de dicho programa , jorge portilla , resaltó que este plan está dirigido a niños con coeficiente intelectual en el orden de los 130 puntos , para lo cual se les realiza a los pequeños una evaluación objetiva de una serie de capacidades intelectuales séptima convención colectiva del magisterio incluirá a 530.000 educadores venezolanos la nueva contratación implicará no sólo el incremento de salario , sino la protección social de los educadores y su núcleo familiar en materia de vivienda , alimentación , salud , recreación y formación permanente luz será resguardada con plan patria segura desde este lunes este sábado fue acordada la instalación de mesas de trabajo entre los representantes del plan patria segura y las autoridades de la universidad del zulia , con el propósito de articular acciones que den tranquilidad a la población universitaria crearán calendario cultural en universidades para fortalecer la actividad artística proyectar el talento que existe en las universidades y fortalecer la actividad artística dentro de las casas de estudios universitarios , es el propósito con el que los ministerios de cultura y educación universitaria elaborarán un calendario de trabajo exponen ante estudiantes proceso de planificación y presupuesto del sector universitario se expuso ante los estudiantes aspectos vinculados con el plan operativo anual del sector , la formulación del ajuste del prespuesto entre septiembre y octubre de cada año ; la ejecución de recursos , que se inicia en enero de cada año , y la importancia del seguimiento y control de estas etapas más de 600 bachilleres ingresaron a las aulas de la unefa-vargas este jueves , el núcleo litoral de la universidad nacional experimental de la fuerza armada ( unefa ) abrió sus puertas a más de 600 bachilleres de estado vargas que iniciarán sus estudios en las carreras de ingeniería , economía social y turismo viceministro guzmán : autoridades universitarias deben rendir cuentas sobre presupuesto transferido el viceministro para la educación universitaria , jeyson guzmán , explicó que se implementará una política feroz y contundente en materia de rendición de cuentas , la cual consiste en transferir recursos a aquellas universidades que presenten los gastos del presupuesto ante su comunidad infringement of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
seeburundi réalités la centrafrique lance un mandat d 'arrêt international contre françois bozizé c 'est ce qu 'a annoncé le procureur de la ville de bangui vendredi la république centrafricaine a lancé un mandat d 'arrêt international contre le président déchu françois bozizé , 66 ans , renversé en mars , pour crimes contre l 'humanité et incitation au génocide notamment , a annoncé vendredi le procureur de bangui alain tolmo .
" depuis le 29 mai 2013 , un mandat d 'arrêt international a été émis contre le principal auteur françois bozizé , " a annoncé le procureur .
il a souligné que , parmi les chefs d 'accusation , figuraient notamment des crimes relevant du statut de la cour pénale internationale ( cpi ) , entre autres : crimes est également accusé d 'assassinats , au nombre de 22 actuellement ; des destruction et incendie des maisons d 'habitation au nombre de 3823 pour le " depuis le 2 mai 2013 sur la base des informations factuelles , détaillées , précises , contenues dans les prescriptions écrites du ministre de la justice , des instructions ont été transmises au parquet général , pour ordonner l 'ouverture d 'une enquête contre m. françois bozizé yangouvonda et autres , pour des faits ou du moins pour des chefs d 'accusation multiples et lamentablement graves , " a précisé le magistrat .
d 'autres mandats d 'arrêt internationaux sont en d 'enquête mise en place par les autorités de bangui a rencontré jeudi le ministre centrafricain de la justice arsène sendé et va enquêter sur les violations des droits humains et autres crimes commis pendant le règne de françois bozizé , et après la prise du pouvoir par la coalition rebelle séléka le bozizé , lui-même arrivé au pouvoir par les armes en 2003 , avait été élu président en 2005 et réélu en 2011 au terme d 'un scrutin très critiqué par l 'opposition .
après l 'entrée des rebelles dans bangui , il s 'est réfugié au cameroun .
en avril , m. bozizé avait également demandé l 'ouverture d 'une enquête internationale sur les violences à bangui , où le nouveau pouvoir peine toujours the un headquarters in new york held a general debate of the 68th session of the general assembly .
a key topic of the discussion was predictably the syrian issue .
the discussion around the situation in this country were not so much in the way whether a military intervention is needed , as in searching for a response to the question , what to do with the syrian stockpile of chemical weapons ?
colonial lake victoria navigation map up for review-commission na lusekelo philemon of these iconic features to be highlighted by the map include the ports of kisumu , mwanza and port bell. ippmedia.com © 1998-2013 .
all rights reservedultimul cuvânt | cadran politic învăţământul românesc suferă ca un cal de povară .
adică el e sănătos , în putere , da-i vai de capu ’ lui !
trebuie să tragă până cade în genunchi .
iarăşi se ridică , iar e pus la ham , iar i se încarcă în spinare pietre de moară .
în cazul de faţă pietrele de moară sunt factorii de decizie din minister .
unde , bineînţeles , cel mai „ greu ” este ministrul .
uneori chiar cel ...
chit că încă nu a venit sorocul , un bilanţ al mandatelor lui traian băsescu se impune .
nu , formularea nu este adecvată , pentru că ea poate sugera un demers exhaustiv sau unul academic .
ori o încercare contabilicească , obiectivă , de a stabili o realitate .
nu-mi propun niciuna dintre cele trei variante .
eu vreau să spun cum simt eu românia după aproape două mandate , de câte cinci ani , ...
pare incredibil că după sintagma ambasadorului mark gitenstein „ simplul fapt că puteţi protesta fără teama de a fi împuşcaţi ” , ambasada statelor unite la bucureşti a deschis un site , www.banipierduti.ro , în care să poată vedea tot românul care ştie dea un search pe net cum sunt prăduiţi banii publici în românia .
probabil că s-au săturat şi americanii să vadă cu câtă nesimţire ...
inventatorii români şi-au reconfirmat meritele la salonul internaţional archimedes 2010 de la moscova la al xiii-lea salon internaţional de inventică „ archimedes 2010 ” , care s-a desfăşurat în perioada 30 martie-2 aprilie 2010 , în parcul expoziţional „ sokolniki ” din moscova , au fost etalate peste 980 de invenţii din 15 state europene şi asiatice , precum şi din 47 de regiuni din federaţia rusă .
anul acesta , românia a fost reprezentată de forumul inventatorilor români ( fir ) şi ...
o dată cu îndepărtarea lui călin popescu tăriceanu de la conducerea pnl , a ieşit din spaţiul public singurul adversar real pentru traian băsescu .
în momentul de faţă , adversarul preşedintelui a rămas el însuşi .
nici mircea geoană , nici crin antonescu nu joacă măcar în aceeaşi ligă cu preşedintele , ca să nu mai vorbim de recenta candidatură a asr prinţul radu de românia .
alegerile europarlamentare reprezintă , printre altele , şi parastasul de … câţi ani , oare ? 13 ? de la decesul societăţii civile româneşti . aş plasa momentul morţii în 1996 , odată cu câştigarea alegerilor de către emil constantinescu şi cdr .
într-un anume sens , a fost atunci triumful singurei forme de manifestare reală a societăţii civile româneşti , piaţa universităţii .
petiţiile ...
la începutul anului , numeroşi observatori îşi imaginau că de data aceasta ciclul economic global va fi diferit .
pe măsură ce se înmulţeau dovezile că economia sua cunoştea cea mai severă criză pe piaţa creditelor şi cea imobiliară de după cel de-al doilea război mondial , mulţi sperau că sănătatea structurală a economiilor europeană şi asiatică le vor împiedica să răcească ...
în lupta oamenilor politici pentru putere şi influenţă , în goana după putere şi interese personale , în încercările ( reuşite ) de manipulare a opiniei publice , ceea ce se distruge este tocmai omul , omul simplu care îşi trăieşte pur şi simplu viaţa , şi al cărui duşman cel mai mare pare să fie tot omul , chiar când natura îi este şi ea potrivnică .
de ce în ştirile şi emisiunile de pe orice post de televiziune aproape totul are de-a face cu noi , românii , cu tot ce vrei şi , mai ales , ce nu vrei să auzi că se întâmplă în românia ?
şi de ce avem parte de atâtea emisiuni de „ divertisment ” care par a fi mai mult un fel de metode primitive de îndobitocire a naţiunii ?
în contrast cu problemele euro ­ pene şi globale ce se discutau ... „ lasă , bei , uşile să se-nchidă , lasă , bei , uşile ! ! ” , acesta era mesajul la microfon al conductorului unui metrou acum câteva zile când mă întorceam de la serviciu .
un astfel de mesaj comic îţi înveseleşte ziua ?
sau te întristează impoliteţea şi barbarismul ?
nu se ştie .
românia este ţara tuturor posibilităţilor & # 8230 ; © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress airport to airport transport : no worries theres a bus service that leaves don muang regularly for transit passengers to suvannabhumi airport as well as a mini bus van service that also goes there .
just go to the entrance at arrival lounge or ask the airport information .
avoid the touts who may accost you or any taxis drivers --there are con men .
at the new airport the authorities have been able to curtail the touts inside the airport and rogue taxi drivers but in december they are back again by the doors so watch out and do not accept rides from these taxi cabs .
go to the taxi stand and tell the counter where you wish to go .
they will give you chit .
you pay 50baht extra on top of the meter price for taxis .
internation airport 99 village no.3 , sanambin panij rd . , klong hoi khong thani internation airport 1fl .
tumbun nadee , amphor muang , udon thani , berkeley lawmaker faces wage garnishment mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt deputies searching for accomplices in murder of charleston man sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt syrias chemicals destroyed sun oct 6 , 2013 5 : 20 pm edt wv lawyers license suspended for gun incident sun oct 6 , 2013 1 : 20 pm edt new ged test coming soon mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt for 97 years , unplanned life has worked out well mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt statehouse beat : a lot of road time on the state dime mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt one person stabbed in milton mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 20 am edt wchs to stream holgorsen press conference on tuesday mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt two charged in death of missing man sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 20 am edt fire breaks out at a ripley , wv apartment complex mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt eight people are injured in a vehicle accident in raceland , ky sun oct 6 , 2013 5 : 20 pm edt fire crews on scene of a structure fire in campbells creek sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 20 am edt stabbing reported in cabell county mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 20 am edt gas station robbery prompts words of warning from wvsp sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt — attackers in burundi chopped off the limbs of a 5-year-old albino boy and thoma vyegura , who was not albino , was also killed while trying to protect his liana walked out in protest after mayor of arusha gaudence lyimo accused her of disrespect to the council , a claim that led to the meeting being called off .
lyimo said : & ldquo ; our aim is to work together so that we collectively bring development to our people .
but , we need to respect the rules and regulations . & ldquo ; it doesn ’ t come to mind that you convened a meeting and when councillors want to get correct information on the project you deny them & hellip ; this is disrespect to the councillors , & rdquo ; claimed lyimo and called off the meeting .
however , liana said the project was not on the agenda of the friday meeting . & ldquo ; skytel is not the agenda of the meeting , but there are people who use it to thwart the meeting , & rdquo ; she stated , blaming the mayor for not bothering to call a single finance and economic affairs committee meeting to address the matter .
olasiti ward councillor , ismail katamboi ( ccm ) , said the issue of skytel has been resolved and the director had put it clearly .
time for house gop to ’ stand and fight , ’ says boehner sun oct 6 , 2013 3 : 07 pm edt al qaeda leader al libi caught in libya sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 07 am edt tickets available for arkansas business cfo of the year awards luncheon fri oct 4 , 2013 11 : 07 am edt day six of the government shutdown mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 07 am edt one man dies in white county accident sun oct 6 , 2013 5 : 07 pm edt furloughed lrafb civilian employees to return to work sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 07 pm edt trial date set in ark. trooper ’ s shooting sat oct 5 , 2013 7 : 07 pm edt mirumbe was prompted to give the clarifications after wananchi complained of police the identity of whistle blowers to criminals placing their lives in danger .
man in silver line incident had a few beers too many and wanted to sit in bus driver ’ s seat , transit police say sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt enrico ponzo , mob associate who spent 17 years on the lam , hiding as a cattle rancher , set to go to trial mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 15 am edt samaritan recalls brush with bikers mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 15 am edt briuins ’ chara taking part in nh fundraiser mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 19 am edt nh mulls date for cross-border snowmobile weekend sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 19 pm edt new hampshire man killed in motorcycle crash sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 19 am edt penn outlasts dartmouth 37-31 in 4 overtimes sat oct 5 , 2013 7 : 19 pm edt towson tops new hampshire sat oct 5 , 2013 7 : 19 pm edt i still love her ’ mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt fire displaces 31 in worcester sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 15 pm edt cops : three struck by vehicle in the south end sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 15 pm edt cops : three struck by hit and run driver in the back bay sun oct 6 , 2013 5 : 15 pm edt kerry : terrorists can run , but cant hide sun oct 6 , 2013 05 : 15 am edt red sox lead rays 2-0 in alds sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 15 pm edt da : motorcyclist had key role in nyc suv brawl sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 15 pm edt jerry remy ’ s son due in court in killing sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 15 pm edt man assaulted on pleasant street in brockton sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 15 am edt brockton man punched in face sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 15 am edt natick to be recognized at state house mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 15 am edt at the rose : correcting a blind spot sun oct 6 , 2013 5 : 15 pm edt at the rose : ’ image machine ’ of andy warhol sun oct 6 , 2013 5 : 15 pm edt million-dollar homes in brockton region are rare , but here are a few sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 15 am edt if you are using " windows " or any other applicable software , and which to receive a notice of receipt , before you send , click " options " and then " return receipt " to ensure we have received your notice caucasusarmenia azerbaijangeorgiain azerbaijan , a presidential campaign of contrastskyrgyz man wanted for ' jihad ' video blog archivemore from ozodi.tj ҳомид карзай лоя ҷиргаро даъват мекунад дар ҳамлаҳо дар миср даҳ нафар ҷон бохтанд бозии “ парвоз ” - “ хайр ” мусовӣ шуд қиссаи талхи як зани гирифтори вич дар кӯлоб убайдуллоев муовинашро танбеҳ додааст radio ozodi ( in tajik ) features & commentary ri lawmaker wants calamari named state appetizer thu feb 28 , 2013 4 : 25 pm est hundreds gather in ri at mass for benedict xvi thu feb 28 , 2013 2 : 25 pm est ri native to lead naval war college in newport thu feb 28 , 2013 10 : 25 am est uri seeks input on arming campus police mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 25 am edt man in serious condition after stabbing in bridgewater mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 25 am edt cranston woman killed in i-95 crash in foxborough sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 25 pm edt ri gop rifle raffle sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 25 pm edt meeting on rising sea levels in ri sat oct 5 , 2013 6 : 25 pm edt americorps stipends halted by shutdown sat oct 5 , 2013 12 : 25 am edt shutdown may affect americorps members fri oct 4 , 2013 10 : 25 pm edt the government has been shut down since tuesday .
the co-hosts of " fox and friends saturday " lamented the closure of the world war ii memorial , which kooiman claimed " doesn 't seem fair especially " because " president obama has offered to pay out of his own pocket for the museum of muslim culture . "
homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americacentral americacosta ricael salvadorguatemalahondurasnicaraguapanama juba university lecturers threaten to strike as gov 't averts the situation smelter site cleanup continues mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 29 am edt creatures great and small blessed in edmonds mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 29 am edt devotion to hospice care to be recognized mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 29 am edt candidate withdraws from snohomish race but is still on ballot mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 29 am edt search and rescue crew fundraising to keep helicopter in the air mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt hunt for jblm soldier ’ s killer in stunned lakewood community mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt all are not welcome at this seattle farmer ’ s market mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 29 am edt seattle police looking for suspected hit and run driver sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 29 pm edt two teens killed in spokane valley car crash sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt inmates make crafts to raise money for spokane boy sat oct 5 , 2013 6 : 29 pm edt rapist back in jail on probation violation fri oct 4 , 2013 8 : 29 pm edt ruth anderson ’ s 10 legendary locals of the puyallup valley mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 29 am edt ' in the face of new diseases use biotechnology ' na gerald kitabu question : what is the importance of agricultural biotechnology to tanzanian farmers ?
a : it is important to avoid confusion and misunderstanding by explaining the two terms . ’
a crucial presidential election this june , and one thing is clear : it is up to for the east african community as we usher in 2010 challenge for the other eac members is that some of them cannot be said to have provision on proxy voting — voting on behalf of burundians in the diaspora — laws are yet to provide for the regulatory mechanisms on the activities of assassinating the winner .
in 1961 , prince louis rwagasore of uprona won the the then ruling uprona lost to the frodebu of melchior ndadaye , who was murdered there was a general sigh of relief when outgoing president domitien ndayizaye needs access to the ports of dar es salaam and mombasa on the indian ocean coast training to political parties , civil society , and other stakeholders in how to the provisions on proxy voting — the voting on behalf of burundians in the venezuela e india exploran oportunidades de negocios en materia petroleraentre este lunes y el miércoles , venezuela e india exploran oportunidades en materia petrolera durante la i rueda de negocios de ambas naciones , que se desarrolla en la ... decretada intervención de corpoelec por seis mesesigualmente , la publicación detalla que el procedimiento estará a cargo de una junta interventora integrada por un presidente y seis miembros principales con sus ... ingreso mínimo mensual llegará a bs 4.113el jefe de estado reiteró que están garantizados los aumentos de pensiones y los aguinaldos para los pensionados , que ascienden a casi 2.800.000 personas venezuela e india exploran oportunidades de negocios en materia petrolera 15 operativos de mercal este domingo en el distrito capital y cuatro estados del país las jornadas , además de hacerse en la capital , se realizarán en los estados apure , aragua , barinas y miranda .
allí podrán encontrar productos de las redes mercal y pdval ministro ramírez rebate falsa información sobre retiro de petroleras de la faja del orinoco el ministro para petróleo y minería , rafael ramírez , calificó como falsa una información publicada el pasado jueves por el diario el universal que aseguraba el supuesto retiro de siete empresas internacionales de los trabajos en la faja petrolífera del orinoco pdvsa incorpora dos nuevos buques para reforzar transporte de hidrocarburos el primer buque con capacidad de transportar 2 millones de barriles de petróleo , bautizado ayacucho , llegó de china y fue construido gracias a los acuerdos estratégicos entre el gigante asiático y venezuela " mercal obrero y mercal casa por casa cuentan con los recursos y vamos a garantizar su distribución en las comunidades y en los centros de trabajo " , expresó el presidente maduro ramírez : tenemos los elementos para mantener a nuestro país en estabilidad y crecimiento set special mechanism to control tax exemptions , govt told na aisia rweyemamu kisesa mp luhaga mpina ( ccm ) has been particularly vocal against haphazard tax exemptions provisions .
last march , the mp blamed the government for its failure to reduce the exemptions .
françois hollande was keen to mark the occasion for the international investiture of the new president of mali , ibrahim boubacar keïta " ibk " . ( ... )
ibrahim boubakar keita - known by his friends as le kankélentiki - “ man of his word ” in bambara - has an extensive network of influential friends backing his presidential bid . ( ... )
the mali government ’ s director-general for geology and mines , lassana guindo , has ( ... )
the man in charge of exploration on papillon resources ’ gold project at fekola since ( ... ) • best-selling author tom keyser , who is not only the best storyteller i have ever met , he is the most efficient and reliable writer in the business .
maybe i could get a volume discount if i register at the same time as my 17-year-old daughter , who also has her sights set on a post-secondary basketball career .
surely if i can handle my seven kids and run a business publication , i could squeeze in a few hours a day for basketball practice .
and three or four hours per day for classes .
oh yeah , and a couple of hours per evening for studying .
hmmm .
so , if you are reading , coach dan , add me to the list for tryouts this summer .
and ask the trainer to load up on cortisone and advil .
in those days , i wrote virtually all of the advertising copy , and we were going to press on monday , so i needed to drive out to canmore immediately to conduct the interview .
as i worked out the details of a friday evening interview , it suddenly hit me that nicholas would be devastated if i cancelled our trip to the mountains .
i told garry that one angle for the ad feature was to have me bring my son to stay at the lodge and write a first-person piece on the experience .
garry thought it was a great idea and invited nick and me to have dinner with him and his colleague peter .
on the one-hour drive to canmore , i counselled nick on the importance of being polite and respectful while we ate dinner and while i did the interview .
windtower became one of my best clients in the years to follow , and i think our initial meeting with nick along for the ride was a big factor in creating a great client relationship .
angela behaved like an angel and clearly helped me win over a new client that would also go on to be a regular advertiser .
as we approached the green , one of our group suggested we just pick up our balls and head to the next tee .
great idea , i thought , particularly since my tee shot on the par 3 had fallen short of the green and a par was unlikely .
9 . you didn & # 8217 ; t slip on some netting at the start of the day and fall awkwardly to the floor , injuring your wrist .
4 . you didn & # 8217 ; t try to carry a queen-size boxspring down to your basement only to find out that there is no way it would fit around the tight corner and through the door at the bottom of the stairs & # 8230 ; and you didn & # 8217 ; t gouge the newly painted walls in several places trying to get it through .
other benefits have been the harmonization of standards and participation of citizens – especially the youth – in the eac integration process .
checked the menu and it seems the one restaurant has higher prices .
sounds to me like a marketing ploy to get national attention so he can franchise , and then sell off his upstart to a large corporation .
looks to me he is using his workers for a short term marketing ploy .
let us see where they are in 10 years .
how much fr a burger , fries , and a shake ?
remember when mcds said you could get change from your dollar ?
but now having beome the work place forthe prviously employed middle class and the parentsof families .
minimum wage does cut it any more .
and becuse many of themfight to pay the minumum wage or less the employees must supplement thier wages with food stamps and welfare checks .
we we thoue of us still working at middle class jobs have to support with our taxes .
so the question is do you want the minumum wage to go up our do you want your taxes to go up while getting less services and your children getting less of an education .
that 's the thing ... people want to complain how all the prices would go up if minimum wage is raised .... and then to find out it would go up from a few cents at the drive thru to maybe a dollar or two at other restaurants ... as if that is somehow too high a price to pay .
give me a break ... if you can 't afford that then you need to not eat out or go through the drive thru and you should be at home making dinner instead of complaining .
to think people want to make such ignorant excuses for people they see as below them to not make a living wage .
ridiculous to say the least .
the minimum wage should be raised to meet the raising costs of living. if she can afford $ 10 at mcdonalds she should go to the grocery store and buy groceries and make food with that money at home !
fast food is a luxury , not a necessity for people .
every time we have on of these " let 's pay burger pushers double minimum " i say the same thing no way in ha des would the standard mcds employee be given an interview , much less a job six bucks for a sandwich , $ 2,50 for fries , $ 2,00 for a drink .
i went through the drive through not long ago and had to triple check my order . it was like the meals had almost doubled in price .
now i go to in and out ...
if i am going to pay the price i also want the quality i see you have a cons level of business knowledge .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.oops !
page not found .
masafa mapya ya ' satellite ' kuanzia tareha 14 novemba , 2009 kwa vituo vifuatavyo : & ldquo ; we all know that there is a case against such a law filed since 2009 but todate the court has yet to assign judges to hear it & hellip ; we are concerned that the government has continued to use such a suppressive law and at the same time the government has failed to table in the national assembly two bills of right to information for many years . & rdquo ; tef call is based on a number of arguments but most importantly , it has cited the newspapers act of 1976 which the government has used , pointing out that it was oppressive .
the statement said it was the same oppressive law that was used to ban mwanahalisi .
the coalition said the news on the banning of the two tabloids shocked the organisations in that the government has interfered with freedom of information which is a key pillar in good governance .
in a related development , the committee to protect journalists ( cpj ) recently condemned the decision by the government to suspend the two kiswahili dailies on accusations of sedition .
posted by ana maria ghimis on may 27th , 2012 / / comments off © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressburundi réalités rdc : hrw dénonce les atrocités du m23 avec son allié rwandais c ’ est un rapport accablant pour le rwanda que l ’ ong qui défend les droits atrocités que les rebelles du m23 continuent de perpétrer à l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , apporte également de nouvelles preuves indiquant l ’ implication large de troupes rwandaises dans ce conflit aux côtés du m23 . & bdquo ; non seulement le rwanda permet au m23 de se procurer des recrues et de l ’ équipement sur son territoire , mais aussi les militaires rwandais continuent d ’ apporter un soutien direct à ce groupe qui commet des exactions « , déclare le directeur de la division afrique de hrw .
daniel bekele . & bdquo ; ce soutien renforce un groupe armé qui est responsable de nombreux meurtres , viols et autres crimes les rebelles du m23 ont exécuté sommairement au moins 44 personnes et violé au moins 61 femmes et filles depuis mars 2013 dans l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) « affirme ce rapport publié ce 22 juillet .
hrw annonce avoir recueilli ces informations suite à plus de 100 entretiens réalisés depuis le mois de mars 2013 , comprenant des témoignages d ’ anciens combattants du m23 qui ont déserté ce mouvement entre fin mars et juillet ainsi que des civils vivant près de la frontière rwando-congolaise , dont nombreux sont hrw affirme que les combattants du m23 , mènent particulièrement une chasse à l ’ homme contre les populations de l ’ ethnie hutue dans les territoires qu ’ ils contrôlent . & bdquo ; les 25 et 26 avril , des combattants du m23 ont tué 15 civils d ’ ethnie hutue dans plusieurs villages du groupement de busanza dans le territoire de rutshuru , et au moins six autres à la mi-juin , apparemment pour & bdquo ; punir « les villageois pour leur prétendue collaboration avec des milices hutues le rapport fait également état de nombreux arrestations et enlèvements qui ont eu lieu au cours des dernières semaines dans le territoire de rutshuru par des combattants du m23 .
les victimes sont des dizaines de civils , la plupart d ’ ethnie hutue .
les personnes enlevées quand elles ne sont pas exécutées , sont & bdquo ; un ancien policier du m23 qui a déserté ce mouvement a rapporté à hrw qu ’ il avait participé à des enquêtes sur des meurtres de civils .
il a affirmé qu ’ avant chaque enquête , un commandant de haut rang du m23 , innocent kanyana lui disait : & bdquo ; c ’ est toi qui mènera l ’ enquête .
et tu diras que ce sont des bandits de la pendant l ’ attaque de la nuit du 25 avril , un groupe de combattants du m23 a traversé les villages de ruvumbura , kirambo , nyamagana et shinda , tuant et pillant sur leur passage .
une mère de trois enfants , âgée de 43 ans , a dit à hrw : & bdquo ; quand ils ont commencé à tuer des gens , nous avons fui dans la brousse .
mon mari est retourné chercher nos biens et ils l ’ ont tué .
ils lui ont tiré une balle dans la tête « . & bdquo ; dans la région de busanza , les combattants ont demandé de l ’ argent à une femme de 33 ans , quand elle a dit qu ’ elle n ’ en avait pas , ils ont entaillé son épaule d ’ un coup de machette et ont frappé son fils de 11 ans à d ’ autres cas d ’ exécutions sommaires par le m23 sont rapportés par hrw à l ’ instar de celui d ’ un homme de 62 ans qui a eu lieu fin mai à ntamugenga car ce dernier refusait de remettre ses fils au m23 ; l ’ assassinat le 15 mai d ’ un chauffeur de moto près de kiwanja parce qu ’ il refusait de leur donner de l ’ argent ; à la mi-juin , l ’ exécution par plusieurs balles dans la poitrine d ’ un plusieurs autres cas d ’ exécutions sommaires par le m23 , sur de nouvelles recrues qui tentaient de s ’ échapper ont également été rapportés .
le cas le plus interpellant est celui d ’ un déserteur connu sous le nom de tupac : & bdquo ; le 21 juin , les combattants du m23 ont capturé un des leurs , un congolais nommé & bdquo ; tupac « , alors qu ’ il essayait de s ’ enfuir près de kabuhanga .
ils l ’ ont ramené au camp militaire de kamahoro , où le commandant a ordonné à ses troupes de se mettre en formation et de l ’ abattre pour décourager d ’ autres désertions .
ils ont tué tupac de deux balles dans la poitrine tirées à bout portant « .
un déserteur du m23 a rapporté à hrw qu ’ il avait été forcé , avec d ’ autres recrues , d ’ enterrer tupac concernant les viols commis par le m23 , hrw affirme avoir documenté 61 cas de viol de femmes ou de filles par des combattants du m23 entre mars et début juillet , et affirme néanmoins qu ’ en raison de la marque d ’ infamie qui s ’ attache au viol et de la peur de représailles , le nombre réel des victimes est beaucoup plus élevé . & bdquo ; fréquemment , les violeurs avertissaient leurs victimes qu ’ elles seraient tuées si elles parlaient du viol ou si elles cherchaient à recevoir des & bdquo ; beaucoup des victimes de viol étaient dans leurs champs ou entrain de ramasser du bois .
les combattants du m23 ont accusé certaines d ’ entre elles d ’ être les & bdquo ; épouses « de combattants des fdlr .
la plupart des viols ont été commis à proximité des positions du m23 et certaines victimes ont reconnu leurs agresseurs comme étant des combattants du m23 qu ’ elles avaient vus auparavant « malgré le silence des victimes , le rapport de hrw mentionne plusieurs cas à l ’ instar de celui d ’ une fillette de 12 ans violée le 5 juillet par quatre combattants du m23 alors qu ’ elle cherchait de l ’ eau près de son village dans le territoire de rutshuru ; ou encore le cas d ’ un combattant du m23 qui le 15 avril 2013 près de bunagana a accosté une jeune femme de 18 ans et lui a tiré une balle dans la jambe parce qu ’ elle a refusé d ’ avoir une relation sexuelle avec des recrutements forcés au rwanda et en rdc impliquant même des jeunes selon hrw , les habitants de la région et des anciens rebelles ayant déserté ont fait état d ’ opérations récentes de recrutement forcé d ’ hommes et de garçons au rwanda et à l ’ est de la rdc pour le compte de m23 .
parmi les hommes recrutés au rwanda par le m23 , le rapport de hrw affirme que figurent de nombreux jeunes garçons majeurs mais aussi quelques mineurs .
il y des fdlr , dont la plupart avaient été intégrés dans la force de réserve de l ’ armée rwandaise , ainsi que des civils rwandais . & bdquo ; un jeune rwandais âgé de 15 ans a raconté à human rights watch que lui et trois autres jeunes hommes et garçons avaient reçu la promesse d ’ emplois en tant que gardiens de vaches en rd congo , mais qu ’ une fois arrivés dans ce pays , ils avaient été forcés de rejoindre le m23 .
ils y ont suivi une formation militaire dispensée par des officiers rwandais et on les a avertis qu ’ ils seraient abattus s ’ ils tentaient & bdquo ; de récents déserteurs du m23 interrogés par human rights watch ont décrit des arrivées fréquentes parfois hebdomadaires de militaires et de recrues en provenance du rwanda .
parfois il s ’ agissait de rotations , des hommes nouveaux en remplaçant d ’ autres qui étaient retournés au rwanda « poursuit le rapport .
hrw assure avoir documenté des dizaines de cas de recrutement de force par le m23 depuis mars , y compris d ’ enfants .
ces recrutements semblent même avoir augmenté au cours des derniers mois , depuis que le m23 a perdu plusieurs hommes ( morts et déserteurs ) , quand la faction du m23 dirigée par bosco ntaganda a subi une défaite en mars face à celle commandée par sultani makenga .
les cas de sept enfants rwandais , âgés de 15 , 16 et 17 ans , qui ont été recrutés de force au rwanda en mars et en avril , puis forcés de se battre dans les rangs du m23 , avant de parvenir à déserter ont également été recensés .
hrw affirme avoir reçu des informations concernant d ’ autres enfants recrutés au rwanda au cours de ces derniers mois et qui , eux , n ’ ont pas pu s ’ enfuir .
des recrutements forcés seraient également intenses en rdc , surtout dans les zones sous contrôle du m23 .
ainsi , & bdquo ; des commandants du m23 ont forcé des chefs coutumiers dans les zones qu ’ ils contrôlent à suivre une formation militaire et idéologique et à fournir des recrues au m23 .
le m23 considère ces chefs locaux comme constituant une & bdquo ; force de réserve « , sur laquelle ils veulent pouvoir néanmoins , tous les récents déserteurs du m23 interrogés par hrw ont déclaré qu ’ au cours des derniers mois , le gros de nouvelles recrues provient de plus en de nombreux bataillons de l ’ armes rwandaise se battent aujourd ’ hui aux côtés du m23 , et ce sont mêmes les officiers rwandais qui dirigent les opérations .
un ancien officier du m23 a indiqué à hrw que les femmes des officiers rwandais venaient souvent leur rendre visite dans les zones tenues par le m23 en rd congo , apportant des lettres de membres de leur famille restés au rwanda .
des habitants de la région et des rebelles déserteurs ont déclaré que & bdquo ; des mouvements réguliers du rwanda vers la rd congo d ’ hommes en uniforme de l ’ armée rwandaise et l ’ approvisionnement du m23 en munitions , en vivres et en autres par ailleurs , tous les déserteurs du m23 interrogés par hrw ont affirmé que la présence de militaires , d ’ officiers et de formateurs rwandais s ’ était poursuivie pendant toute la durée de leur engagement au sein du mouvement , et que de nouveaux renforts souvent déjà munis de divers équipements , notamment militaires continuaient d ’ arriver du rwanda au cours des derniers mois .
hrw mouvements d ’ hommes armés du rwanda vers l ’ est du congo pendant les jours ayant un déserteur congolais a rapporté à hrw , qu ’ au sein du m23 , les rwandais étaient favorisés . & bdquo ; on leur donne des uniformes immédiatement , des couvertures et des bottes .
ils sont gâtés .
quand ils parlent , c ’ est comme si ils étaient les patrons du mouvement .
ils me traitaient de vaut rien et disaient : & bdquo ; tu n ’ as aucune valeur dans ton pays « ils m ’ insultaient avec des mots qu ’ on ne peut prononcer trop fort .
ils disaient & bdquo ; vous les congolais , vous avez peut être fait des études mais vous n ’ avez jamais combattu au front . « « selon hrw , trois anciens officiers du m23 , proches de la hiérarchie du mouvement ont rapporté que les plus hauts commandants militaires du m23 supérieurs de l ’ armée rwandaise .
parfois , des officiers rwandais venaient à tshanzu ou à rumangabo pour rencontrer les chefs du m23 , parfois ce sont les dirigeants du m23 qui se rendaient au rwanda pour des réunions .
les informations circulant ces derniers jours nous apprennent même que plusieurs officiers rwandais auraient été tués d ’ autres blessés dans les combats de ces derniers jours , le général rwandais ibingira compterait parmi les blessés & bdquo ; au cours des 17 dernières années , l ’ armée rwandaise a à maintes reprises envoyé des troupes dans l ’ est de la rd congo et soutenu des forces agissant pour son compte et qui se sont rendues responsables d ’ exactions et de crimes de guerre « , a souligné daniel bekele directeur de la division afrique à hrw . & bdquo ; comme dans le passé , le rwanda nie qu ’ il soutient le m23 , mais les faits sur le terrain contredisent ces démentis . « poursuit-il .
par ailleurs , hrw affirme que , toutes les demandes d ’ entretien adressées à des responsables gouvernementaux et accusé depuis le début des hostilités à l ’ est du congo de ne pas avoir condamné ouvertement le rwanda , les états-unis ont adopté ce mardi le 23 juillet , un ton très sévère à l ’ encontre de kigali , le sommant de retirer ses troupes de la rdc et de cesser son soutien aux rebelles du m23 .
cet appel qui intervient au lendemain de la publication du rapport de hrw épinglant le rwanda pour son implication dans la crise congolaise à côté du m23 , est une première pour les etats-unis .
en effet washington s ’ était , jusque-là , contenté d ’ appeler tous les pays soutenant le m23 à cesser leur appui , sans mentionner les pays en question . & bdquo ; nous appelons le rwanda à cesser immédiatement tout soutien au mouvement du m23 , à retirer son personnel militaire de l ’ est de la rdc et à respecter ses engagements « , a déclaré ce mardi à la presse la porte-parole du département jennifer psaki a affirmé qu ’ il y avait un & bdquo ; ensemble de preuves crédibles « reliant les principaux dirigeants rwandais aux rebelles du m23 qui sèment le pour rappel , dans un rapport de l ’ onu le ministre rwandais de la défense , james kabarebe , est cité comme étant le véritable chef du m23. civilian in the latest in a string of incidents involving the army , a spokesman soldiers approached the entrance of the camp in ngagara , " in the capital bujumbura .
" one of them pounced on the sentinel , yanked his rifle away and shot a week ago and accused of attempting to destabilise the country 's institutions our badger tailgate is brought to you by mad city windows !
how nm health exchange fared in its first week fri oct 4 , 2013 5 : 20 pm edt lockheed to furlough 3,000 nationwide due to shutdown fri oct 4 , 2013 5 : 20 pm edt what should abq ’ s historic el vado motel become ?
fri oct 4 , 2013 3 : 20 pm edt jury deliberations to resume monday in mccluskey murder trial sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 20 pm edt man accused of killing wife in front of own children sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 20 pm edt crews respond to car fire in southwest abq sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 20 am edt nmsu and nmda work together to boost organic farming sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 20 am edt pedestrian killed on hobbs highway sat oct 5 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt new microtel inn & suites opens in aztec sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 20 pm edt police : deceased motorcyclist at fault in crash sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt powwow highlights third day of the fair sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt pay raises for 540 las cruces employees to be decided monday sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt lujan supports backpay law for furloughed workers sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 20 pm edt subcontractors start to feel the pinch sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 20 pm edt it ’ s ok to go to movies alone sometimes sat oct 5 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt commissioners approve contracts for new landfill cell tue oct 1 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt city priority list led by landfill trash compactor tue oct 1 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt comments from the canyons : everyone has own method of relieving tension tue oct 1 , 2013 7 : 20 pm edt to costly promotions .
we have no hidden costs .
all exporters ads are owned by to access markets .
this is one way that minimizes salesreps & costly source for our customers .
it is important you convey to readers your url or accounts at will .
we do have e-commerce but we feel will hold the bil bil of lading until complete monies are paid for shipping & or articles .
we assist and promote one of the best law offices in chiangmai : www.chiangmailaw.com so please if you have a problem contact sumalee jennapa llb & our general law office if you want to link to any of our sites all we ask in return is that you link guarantee if you do not get a minimum of 6 prospective customers we they occur .
when asking us for a quotation it is important to tell us your port of entry in your country and fill address details .
we will quote you up to date full prices and we do have r o r services to the uk but these must be booked prior .
payment is by tt to our company account .
we receive inquiries for various items to be made eg. plastic boxes , metal parts etc .
in these cases we pass this service on to other companies we know .
you can then decide whether to use them or not at your own dicretion .
please note we do not take responsibility for any dicrepancies you may have with these companies but can act as meditator in the event you do have a problem .
we always send out a proforma invoice which will tell you all the shipping and transactions costs .
these invoices if air freight we do reserve the right to add the costs of changed air freight per kg rates as and when they change .
as some of our exports may take 1-2 months to make and pack please note this change .
publishing / export-trade businesses and we can furnish references of exporters and reputable shipping qu : shipping & packing services : we have our own shipping now .
our depot for packing and fumigation is in soi 62 sukhumvit .
all quotes are workdwide for lcl to containers .
we also clear customs for impoters and handle all logistics around thailand .
for all garment exports our packing is at pratunam only for garments .
our turn arounds are quick and we can airfreight within 2 days of your goods coming to our depot .
we handle everything from cars , bike to cothing and personal and we also can get customs clearance on anything including buddhas and art works .
qu : shipping from pattaya or hua hin : we have our own trucks and have our own depot in pattaya as at august 2008 .
please click on the banner : first hotel on petchaburi rd bewteen soi 11 and soi 13 http : / / www.firsthotelbangkok.com / @ 1500 baht -2000baht a night .
we work for xtremestreet wear in brisbane australia & are buyers for this australian company .
see the success they have made on the australian garment market and check one of their many vans below [ xtremestreetwear ] these are our biggest garment customers and we can be your agent as well .
it costs you nothing but we qc and run everything for you in thailand without you being here .
we can offer you more than you think with all our in house services. website may be copied , printed or circulated for publication in any form or part of without business , newsletters are not be published , reproduced & used in any shape or form , in any publication belongs to the respective company / business we market for and we are not responsible for misleading information given to us by these of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs opposite grace hotel , has a band plays at 11pm ? ? ? miles late and the drinks are too expensive .
200 baht for a bacardi breeze ( 53baht in the 7 / 11 ) ; 100 baht for a diet coke and 75n baht for a can of coke .
totally outrageous for a pub but then many bars and pubs are charging outrageous prices for entertainment and thats what bangkok is all about ? ?
not recommended by us apart from pool and the band & a few girls to chat too .
theres definitely better places to go and see but the choice is yours .
they do have pizzas and donar kababs and good value ..
[ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] all the info you need to know about coming to the phillipines of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs contact us - investors.com protesters set car on fire , nearly get blown up ( video ) whitecaps fc striker camilo named mls player of the week for third ...
benteke may be ready to play for belgium sooner than we thought homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 58 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificlatin americalatin americasouth americacentral americasouth americasouth americaargentinaboliviabrazilchilecolombiaecuadorfalkland islandsperuuruguayvenezuelabrazileconomypoliticssport if you have something to say ...
say it on the huffington post it feels like it all went by very fast .
one moment , michael robin , greer shephard and i were sitting at a long conference table at tnt in burbank , " pitching " an idea to michael wright and lillah mccarthy for a new series ; the next , i am writing a few stray thoughts about its finale .
now we are near the end , and the payment for daring to love grows higher .
the purpose of a typical bond hearing is solely for a judge to secure a criminal defendant 's presence at future court proceedings .
so why did the defense essentially play all of their cards in round two of what 's going to be a long battle ?
ron artest and jennifer hudson : why mainstream media traps them in " the hood " " the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.redacția | cadran politic editată de centrul român pentru educaţie şi dezvoltare durabilă , bucureşti .
reproducerea integrală sau parţială a materialelor este permisă numai cu citarea sursei . © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress see the faqs for more info and help , or contact us.oops !
page not found .
yet by summer , with an august recess looming and another temporary spending bill expiring at the end of september , the groups were done waiting .
he was quoted as saying the government had deemed it important to analyse thoroughly the raised views by the service providers .
the university of dar es salaam ( udsm ) is set to officially launch a confucius institute ( ci ) to teach chinese language to learners at the university and improve the general knowledge of chinese culture in the country .
prof mgaya informed newsmakers that the establishment of the institute , a first in dar es salaam and second in the country after the university of dodoma will provide professional services for government , civil society , diplomats and the general public .
guatemala 's government has chosen as the main theme of the 43rd oas general assembly " for a comprehensive policy to fight drugs in the americas . "
the debates and negotiations on the declaration of antigua are underway at the headquarters of the oas in washington , dc .
if the existent lack of willingness to function in an evenhanded manner , as demonstrated by the oas , is any indication of the treatment belize is to have received at the icj , one must ponder whether guatemala ’ s breach of the not-so-special agreement has proven ( at least , thus far ) , a blessing in disguise .
belizeans and true friends of belize , we must remain keenly attuned to what is transpiring because if we lose sight of the principles involved , as well as their negligence , they will inevitably give guatemala its way and simply reschedule the date of the referendum , meanwhile providing no consequences . let those in positions of influence in the halls of the oas know , that belize ’ s civil society is not asleep and despite what our government says , we will not sit idly by and allow you to continue to stack the deck against our nation , as it relates to the fair and unbiased arbitration of matters between belize and guatemala , under the agreement signed in 2008 .
crossing mighty kilombero to see new ' mosquito-perfume ' factory na correspondent keith harris and orville coming to bicester in aid of charity afp - iranian foreign minister mohammad javad zarif insisted on monday that his country has the " absolute right " to enrich uranium on its soil , isna news agency reported .
new farm business fri oct 4 , 2013 11 : 26 am edt a survivor ’ s message sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt culture fest at the chattanooga market sun oct 6 , 2013 1 : 26 pm edt alternatives available for park goers in georgia sun oct 6 , 2013 1 : 26 pm edt ’ remember my name ’ dedicated to slain mom , children sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt military family ready to run sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt high schoolers get upclose look at manufacturing plants sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt the 150th anniversary commemoration of the war sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt troops to be added to maury memorial sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt zombies liven up hayrides at local business sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt students learn about farming on ag day sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt ’ buck up and carry on ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 27 pm edt brandon ’ s beasts : any effort that helps in a win is big sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 27 pm edt vols lose to georgia 34-31 in ot sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt knoxville , blount co. discuss ways to end homelessness thu sep 5 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt ut restricts fundraising on game days thu sep 5 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt haslam has no public events this week mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt blount mayor asks if county can reopen smokies to tourists fri oct 4 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt thp releases names of dead , injured in bus crash thu oct 3 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt memphis military firm recognized as one of world ’ s best fri oct 4 , 2013 1 : 26 pm edt naomi judd to be honored in louisville for career mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt job fair is tuesday in southaven sat oct 5 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt new orleans man identified as driver in crash fri oct 4 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt bryson in mix , mtsu backfield grows mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt report card : ecu vs. mtsu mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt former castner knott executive ed overbey joins diamond gusset jeans fri oct 4 , 2013 5 : 26 pm edt campus trees at tsu , trevecca stand out in middle tn mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 26 am edt mtsu homecoming parade thrills in blue sat oct 5 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt criminals bust donation box , vandalize property in the smokies mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt murfreesboro horse trainer dies in ky crash mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt nashville women go natural ’ for healthier hair mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt wtf ? sh * t hits fan at rolls royce gettydirty protester smears turbines opec boss warns scotland : stay in the uk , most of your oil is goneap why has r-patz been warned off new romance by sean penn ? getty can divorce damage your health more if you are a man ? getty " the huffington post uk " is provided by aol ( uk ) limited . © 2013 aol ( uk ) limited its affiliates and licensors he urged the government to pursue other avenues to redress instances of what it perceives as misrepresentation of its work by the press including dialogue and constant feedback and the use of the mediation services of mct .
the council appeals to media stakeholders and the public to support the councils efforts to lobby for the repeal of the bad laws that suppress freedom of expression and of the media as well as access to information .
it is also important for the public to ensure its right to information , freedom of expression and the media was enshrined and guaranteed in the anticipated new constitution .
he said the defenders want the government to immediately lift the ban on all newspapers so as to provide freedom of information to the public .
he said the government should revoke and amend laws that undermine freedom of information as suggested by media stakeholders in the country .
the demands follow the government ’ s decision to ban two kiswahili daily the publications , ’ mwananchi ’ and ’ mtanzania , ’ for two weeks and three months respectively , at the weekend accusing them of publishing seditious information .
the internet is getting dumber by the day and will be the downfall of mankind .
of course , this is a best of compilation , so the ratio of creative to lame in the wild is probably pretty small. beninabox1 : " to talk to a customer ... "
hysterical that it worked !
october 4 , 2013 there will be a lot of rubbish in washington over the next few days .
and , that rubbish is not only the garbage that is steadily piling up in the nation ’ s capital because of the government ’ s shut down .
it is also the quality of the republican party ’ s argument for refusing to pass a budget that would ...
at cathedral ’ s red mass , bishop warns against ’ petty partisanship ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 29 pm edt d.c. to run up $ 58k weekly tab for park trash collection sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 29 pm edt man who set himself on fire on the national mall dies of injuries sat oct 5 , 2013 1 : 29 pm edt man sets himself on fire on the national mall , airlifted to hospital fri oct 4 , 2013 9 : 29 pm edt man sets himself on fire on the national mall fri oct 4 , 2013 7 : 29 pm edt advertise with us — newschannel 8 fri apr 12 , 2013 5 : 29 pm edt about us and talent bios fri nov 9 , 2012 09 : 29 am est let ’ s talk live tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt the pet show tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt stormwatch 7 weather tue oct 30 , 2012 09 : 29 am edt report : man on fire on national mall fri oct 4 , 2013 5 : 29 pm edt official : woman killed in dc chase was delusional fri oct 4 , 2013 1 : 29 pm edt mother : daughter in capitol chase was ’ depressed ’ fri oct 4 , 2013 09 : 29 am edt pattaya and we specialize in helping foreigners whether relocating or lcl loads chiangmai rates and companies .
this is overseen by our kiwi foreign manager and we can deliver door to door in bangkok or chiangmai , pattaya , hua hin and towns on as at 2013 all shipments for personal every customer must sign an indemnity form to cover our company regarding all personal shipments .
pallets we can supply and will not accept pallets from customers shipping lcl .
due to drugs etc and contraband we will no longer ship and pack goods and take responsibility if you do not sign the indemnity form .
works of art and antiquities and this includes buddhas even made of plastic and bought on the street they must be classified by the fine arts dept so be aware of this when asking us for a quotation and you wish to send personal items please tell us exactly what you are shipping .
itemize all articles so we can tell you if you need fumigation , clearance from customs and fine arts depts etc .
we will not quote you if you do not list all items you wish to ship we can help you as we ship many bikes .
shipping crates can range from 1500 baht to 3000baht per cbm .
have cheap then you may find your goods may be damaged as all shipments will be forklifted and stacked sometimes 3-4 times .
we can give you a rough estimate but you need to make sure you give the right dimensions and then allow us to see so we can tell you any changes of cbm you may need .
quotes are just indicative and can change now in 2008 due to the cost of fuel .
works of art and antiquities and this includes buddhas even made of plastic and bought on the street they must be classified by the fine arts dept so be aware of this as the price for customs can be anywhere up to 3000baht just for clearance even though you only paid 1000baht on the street and its not antique. you also need fumigation for all wood products and crates .
we mainly ship port to port and then send the receiver of the goods the bill of lading and shipping documents for one to clear customs .
its pretty easy to clear yourself and we tell those who come to us for shipping .
freight flowers , fish etc ] [ shipping world ports of entry ] [ internal transport ] [ shipping motorcycles ] [ shipping motorcycles fcl ] [ bikes to australia packing ] [ pratunam market garment hotels ] [ garment buying help ] [ go [ temporary importing ] [ temporary shipping using a " carnet " ] [ sea personal goods ] [ cert of origin ] [ sourcing goods for you ] [ uk clearing agent ] [ storage in bangkok ] [ pallets for sale bangkok ] [ shipping to usa ] [ importing cars ] [ containers for sale ] [ shipping terms & abrevs ] [ our yannawa bangkok storage & loading ] [ 40ft used containers for sale ] [ 40ft used flatracks ] [ unaccompanied baggage ] [ sending under 45kgs air freight ] [ thai chamber of commerce ] [ foreign chamber of commerce ] [ vat refund on shipping cargo ] [ faqs on airfreight cargo ] the utah professionals ’ directory sits on utah lawyers ’ desks and is used daily throughout the year .
just one advertisement in utah ’ s professionals ’ directory reaches utah ’ s legal community for one full year . the utah professionals ’ directory stays on lawyers ’ , judges ’ , paralegals ’ and court reporters ’ desks and is used all year .
contact us | irin | africa | southern africa | mauritius hollandale in limbo sun sep 29 , 2013 11 : 16 am edt the little credit card on the prairie is a liar sat sep 28 , 2013 7 : 16 pm edt should there be a shield law for journalists ?
sat sep 28 , 2013 7 : 16 pm edt bagging a bear wed sep 25 , 2013 1 : 16 pm edt rain and cold is no indicator of winter sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 16 am edt paint the town pink expands to brownsdale sat oct 5 , 2013 9 : 16 pm edt lining up for christmas sat oct 5 , 2013 9 : 16 pm edt want to help ?
fri oct 4 , 2013 11 : 16 pm edt madelia hosts 5th annual pheasant phest fri oct 4 , 2013 11 : 16 pm edt fire sparked by dishwasher damages duluth townhouse mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 16 am edt u of m researcher hopes to develop treatment for ’ face blindness ’ mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 16 am edt candid winmark leader john morgan has no filter fri oct 4 , 2013 7 : 16 pm edt ’ i am an oak tree ’ : an environmental writer ’ s first essay fri oct 4 , 2013 5 : 16 pm edt new york da : motorcyclist sparked violence in suv brawl mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 16 am edt tune in for treats and terror !
mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 16 am edt honor flight of wwii vets enjoys hero ’ s welcome in dc sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 16 pm edt most of state ’ s delegation wont take pay during shutdown thu oct 3 , 2013 01 : 16 am edt the firm has also constructed a number of new dams as well as rehabilitating old ones in the country within the period of its existence. to stay in ] [ bars & pubs ] [ bangkok all the info you need to know about coming to the phillipines as at 2009 april looking for top-rated stocks near a potential buy point ? see the " leaders list " onleaderboard get the details on the can slim system by the man who developed it .
how to spot the true leaders as a new market uptrend begins ... and more !
how bill got started and his lessons learned along the way build your watch list during the market downturnsee the " leaders list " onleaderboard see our latest ibd 2-minute tip video for a quick look at : free ibd trialget access to ibd 's stock lists and tools : print | eibd free leaderboard trialshort on time ?
get ongoing alerts to potential winners from ibd experts .
home | about | search | site map | blog | discussburundi réalités le 7 mai 2013 , rsf a adressé une lettre ouverte au président pierre nkurunziza pour lui faire part de son inquiétude quant à la liberté de l ’ information au burundi et pour lui demander de ne pas promulguer la loi sur les médias adoptée par le parlement .
voici le texte de la lettre : au lendemain de la célébration de la journée mondiale de la liberté de la presse , reporters sans frontières vous demande solennellement de bien vouloir ne pas promulguer la loi sur les médias votée en avril par le parlement .
adopté au début du mois par l ’ assemblée nationale , puis le 19 avril par le sénat , ce texte fait grandement débat , d ’ autant plus qu ’ il intervient dans un climat difficile pour la presse burundaise , déjà marquée par la longue incarcération de hassan ruvakuki et plusieurs agressions graves de journalistes .
il ne faudrait pas interpréter , monsieur le président , les nombreuses protestations de la presse , des associations et des institutions internationales comme des réflexes de défiance à l ’ encontre de l ’ action gouvernementale en en restreignant les sujets accessibles aux journalistes et en augmentant lourdement les peines et amendes , le projet de loi limite considérablement la capacité d ’ investigation des médias et fait planer le risque d ’ une hausse de a deux ans des prochaines échéances électorales nationales , son adoption aurait donc des conséquences désastreuses pour le pluralisme , la transparence , c ’ est pourquoi , en cette période aussi grave que décisive , nous nous en en faisant barrage à l ’ entrée en vigueur de ce texte , vous apporteriez la preuve de votre attachement à la liberté de l ’ information .
si au contraire vous promulguiez cette loi , vous enverriez un signal terriblement négatif à vos notre organisation reste convaincue que vous saurez faire preuve de la hauteur de vue nécessaire pour laisser les médias jouer pleinement leur rôle , si je vous remercie par avance de l ’ attention que vous voulez bien accorder à notre requête et je vous prie d ’ agréer , monsieur le président , l ’ assurance de ma 7.they 've emptied out a 757 to take you to exotic lands boardwalk cleanup won 't stall rebuilding mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt christie , buono set to debate mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt middletown man has drinks at bar after leaving woman in overturned car in keansburg crash , police say sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt boardwalk cleanup won 't stall rebuilding mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt komen race for the cure draws thousands to six flags sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt lakewood man stabbed in stomach after argument , police say sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 20 pm edt christie , buono set to debate mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt man charged in southern nj housesitter 's slaying sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt south nj man convicted in fatal ac street fight sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt editor ’ s note : mother of son fatally stabbed by girlfriend put face on ’ just another trial ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 20 am edt camden cemeteries offer no respite from blight sun oct 6 , 2013 04 : 20 am edt editor ’ s note : mother of son fatally stabbed by girlfriend put face on ’ just another trail ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 04 : 20 am edt komen race for the cure draws thousands to six flags mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt d.c. super pac lashes out at opponents of n.j. democrats through tv ads sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt n.j. lawmakers want to put gps trackers on state cars sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt has haggling gotten too extreme at garage sales and flea markets ?
mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt can you feed a family of 4 healthy food for $ 126 a week ?
sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 20 am edt new jersey dot using gps to track use and abuse of state vehicles mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt funeral for nicholas oresko of cresskill , world war ii hero , set for thursday sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt new jerseyans weighing the options in health care hunt sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt decisions on salary , furloughs vary in nj delegation mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt christie calls for school vouchers at orthodox jewish gathering in teaneck sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt booker , buono to attend montclair rally sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt emails tracked nj transit ’ s plan for rail fleet during superstorm sandy sat oct 5 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt family : injured biker in suv assault a devoted dad fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt police : ny bus aide broke student ’ s arm thu oct 3 , 2013 2 : 20 pm edt ny suv driver ’ s wife : we were in ’ grave danger ’ thu oct 3 , 2013 2 : 20 pm edt wyckoff revaluation slated for this month to see shift in property taxes mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 20 am edt teaneck waives permit fees for home renovations for the disabled mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 20 am edt an easy decision sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt art campers in randolph practice in a variety of mediums sat oct 5 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt art campers in randolph pratice in a variety of mediums sat oct 5 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt nj environmental artist cedes yard to nature sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt putin lights olympic flame for sochi on red square sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 20 pm edt food for thought : let them eat thu oct 3 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt re-enactors bring a touch of the civil war to burlington mansion sat sep 28 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt the road to forgiveness thu sep 26 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt so she ’ s got to say goodbye to the summer sun sep 22 , 2013 08 : 20 am edt pe 6 martie 2013 a avut loc la varșovia o întânire între liderii uniunii europene & # 8211 ; angela merkel și françois hollande & # 8211 ; și premierii statelor membre a grupului de la vișegrad & # 8211 ; polonia , cehia , slovacia și ungaria .
tema discuției a fost o integrare mai strânsă a uniunii europene .
participarea în premieră a cancelarului german și a președintelui francez la discuțiile ...
ideea confiscării banilor cetățenilor ciprioți de către ue și fmi pune capăt oricăror iluzii mai rămăseseră că uniunea europeană este un proiect construit pe baze democratice , cu respect pentru cetățeni .
dictatul din vară impus româniei putea avea scuza prostiei usl și a acțiunilor pripite a acestora , deși instituțiile europene și americane închiseseră ochii la abuzurile similare ...
una dintre cele mai mari presiuni la adresa statului este pentru a crea locuri de muncă .
problema este că nu are prea multe pârghii pentru a face asta .
între alegeri locale , referendum și alegerile parlamentare , declarația guvernatorului bnr privind renunțarea la adoptarea monedei euro în 2015 nu a atras atenția suficient nici în mediul economic , nici în cel politic , nici măcar în rândul analiștilor financiari .
era un deznodământ așteptat ? 1 ) românia este o ţară cu o populaţie săracă şi preponderent prost instruită .
2 ) forţa de muncă este slab spre mediu calificată , cu rare vârfuri .
în programul de guvernare al cabinetului ponta sunt prevăzute reanalizarea codului muncii şi a legii salarizării unice pentru salariaţii bugetari , precum şi a acordului tripartit privind evoluţia salariului minim brut pentru 2012-2016 , dar şi modificarea legii dialogului social .
criză economică mondială , pornită & # 8211 ; după cum bine se știe & # 8211 ; încă din 2007 ( criza subprime ) , dar conștientizată la nivel global abia un an mai târziu , în septembrie 2008 , când a avut loc spectaculoasa prăbușire a lehman brothers și multor altor nume mari din industria financiară le-a trecut glonțul pe la ureche .
deși sistemul bancar global nu a avut schimbări semnificative , ...
europa prin uniunea europeană în general , în special prin zona euro , este zona cea mai expusă la criza economică .
discuțiile sunt în toi de mult , dar ritmul s-a accelerat după ultimele peripeții ale greciei .
stabilitatea zonei euro este pusă în discuție tot mai des , mai ales pe fondul acutizării războiului informațional , punctul culminant fiind zvonul privind un posibil împrumut de ...
drumul certificatelor de emisii co2 : de la extaz la agonie recenta suspendare a dreptului româniei de a tranzacționa certificate de emisii de carbon a creat dezbateri & # 8211 ; aprinse pe alocuri & # 8211 ; pe această temă .
în timp ce unii au spus că se vorbește prea mult în necunoștință de cauză , alții au pretins contrariul .
valoarea pierderilor suferite de românia este estimată de la câteva sute de milioane la 3 miliarde euro .
care este situația ...
propaganda guvernamentală a făcut din 31 martie “ ziua ieşirii din criză ” , al doilea trimestru consecutiv de creştere economică .
practic , ziua ieşirii din criză a fost 1 octombrie .
în ciuda glumelor făcute , este nevoie de astfel de semnale .
orice “ criză ” este întâi de toate o problemă psihologică .
pentru a ieşi din ea ai nevoie mai întâi de un “ reset ” mental şi a o lua ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress monday oct 7 , 2013 lhrc raps kagasheki orders of ' shoot to kill ' na queenter mawinda on friday , in remarks concerning an escalating problem of the slaughter of protected wildlife , the minister for natural resource and tourism , ambassador khamis kagasheki urged game wardens to shoot at poachers seen in the act of illegal hunting or having killed game , to control the upsurge in elephant poaching .
kagasheki directed law enforcers to use any available means including shooting to kill to prevent poachers from escaping , and to deter those in the racket of devastating the country ’ s elephant population , saying the trend was now out of control .
relief for poor women as paralegals multiply na michael haonga limited access to legal aid services has been singled out as a key factor contributing to gross violations of women ’ s and girls ’ rights in many parts of tanzania . & ldquo ; that ’ s why i have said we are going to see the impact of our operations in the near future , & rdquo ; stated the wowap programme coordinator .
after years of haggling over the sudden cancellation of a contract between togo and the compagnie energie electrique du togo ( ceet ) on one side and gdf-suez and its affiliate elyo ( ... )
undaunted by his failure to win control of the mineral terminal in the port of abidjan operated by belgium ’ s sea invest ( ami ) , frank timis has begun talks with the authorities in togo ( ... )
to meet an expected surge in demand from 184 mw in 2012 to 487 mw in 2003 , the government is trying to woo investors .
but the country ’ s shaky financial situation is scaring them away . ( ... )
the international arm of socar , the national oil company in azerbaijan , has lent cash to britain ’ s gasoil to finance its gas projects . ( ... )
the togolese government which received the financial and technical offers of three bidders for the country ’ s carbonated ( ... )
the latest government reshuffle on sept .
17 saw dammipi noupokou regain his portfolio ( ... )
there are only a few hours left in the salt lake film society ’ s attempt to raise $ 50,000 in individual pledges via kickstarter for its " digital deadline " campaign .
exxon says the manufacturer of the pegasus pipeline is to blame for the spill .
as exxon and local crews continue their cleanup efforts in the neighborhoods impacted by last month 's oil spill , homeowners are beginning the process of figuring out what 's next .
try _ the _ truth : < p > < b > one or two cities ?
your link to prove that ? < / b > < br > < / p > by lauren r. rublina change appears to be under way in the markets .
our experts explain the risks , and highlight the opportunities .
dzhokhar tsarnaev charged in death of mit guardnew york daily newscase against accused boston bomber advanced by local prosecutorsreutershighly cited : dzhokhar tsarnaev , alleged marathon bomber , should be arraigned in ... boston.comopinion : middlesex da seeks warrant to arraign dzhokhar tsarnaev for murderboston heraldin depth : state arrest warrant for dzhokhar tsarnaev , boston bombing suspect , issuedhuffington postsee all 70 sourcesrelated marathons more u.s. storiesbusinesseconomic timessee realtime coveragechina and japan warn us on shutdownfinancial times- & lrm ; 20 minutes ago & lrm ; china and japan ratcheted up pressure on the us to avoid an unprecedented us default on its debt as democrats and republicans continued their stand-off in the second week of a us government shutdown.related united states of america jadeveon clowney won 't be the last college football player to hang up his cleats ... charleston city papersteve spurrier tries to clarify his comments on jadeveon clowneylos angeles timessee all 409 sourcesrelated jadeveon clowney les pays africains commercent très peu entre eux en comparaison aux pays asiatiques ou encore européens .
ce qui empêche l ’ accroissement de la compétitivité du continent sur le marché international , selon la banque ( de notre envoyée spéciale au sommet de la bad à marrakech ) les pays africains n ’ échangent pas suffisamment entre eux .
un constat fait par les experts de la banque africaine de développement ( bad ) , qui se sont exprimés sur la question lors d ’ une conférence à l ’ occasion des assemblées annuelles de l ’ organisation , à marrakech .
le commerce inter-africain n ’ est que de 15 & percnt sur tout le continent .
ce qui constitue un taux très faible comparé aux autres pays du monde .
pourquoi est ce que les pays du continent commercent si les raisons sont multiples , selon les experts de la bad .
les pays africains sont confrontés au manque de capitaux , d ’ infrastructures et à la mauvaise gouvernance .
sans compter les taxes douanières qui coûtent très chers .
tous ces problèmes de logistiques empêchent le commerce inter-africain de se développer . & bdquo ; le manque de compétence des ressources humaines est aussi un sérieux frein à la fluidité des échanges alors qu ’ une entreprise a besoin d ’ une main d ’ oeuvre qualifiée « , selon le dr. abbi mamo kedir , consultant en économie au sein de l ’ organisation school of management university of lelcester en international .
pourtant des politiques de soutien existent dans le continent pour les promouvoir , selon les experts de la bad .
mais elles ne sont pas concrétisées .
quelles solutions face à ce constat alarmant ?
d ’ après eux , il faut commencer par réformer les politiques d ’ investissements pour promouvoir les le maroc , qui est devenu un carrefour d ’ investissement dans la région en quelques années , a fourni des efforts allant en ce sens , selon youssef rouissi , directeur général adjoint de la banque attijariwafa .
d ’ après lui , son pays s ’ intéresse de près au & bdquo ; marché africain .
nous disposons de cinq banques dans plusieurs pays d ’ afrique .
de plus , les millions de consommateurs africains nous ont fait comprendre qu ’ on pouvait récupérer le marché de distribution de toutefois , même si le maroc effectue des investissements dans les pays du continent , 60 & percnt de son économie dépend encore de l ’ europe , notamment de la france raison de plus pour laquelle , l ’ afrique doit impérativement s ’ unir si elle veut améliorer sa compétitivité sur le marché mondial , estime pour sa part le ministre ougandais de la justice , kahinda otafiire .
selon lui , & bdquo ; jusqu ’ à présent , l ’ afrique a toujours exporté des matières premières .
il faut qu ’ elle diversifie son marché , qu ’ elle construise par exemples ses propres voitures .
« le ministre va même plus loin : & bdquo ; l ’ afrique du sud qui a connu un essor économique très important ces dernières années peut atteindre un meilleur niveau de développement .
mais malheureusement elle ne s ’ est pas suffisamment imposée sur le marché africain alors qu ’ elle a le potentiel pour le faire « .
preuve , selon lui , & bdquo ; qu ’ on ne pourra pas parler de croissance en afrique tant qu ’ on aura seulement , l ’ intégration régionale est loin d ’ être aisée à mettre en place .
des organisations telles que la communauté économiques des etats de l ’ afrique de l ’ ouest ( cedeao ) ou la communauté économique des etats d ’ afrique centrale ( ceeac ) existent .
mais plusieurs dissensions entravent à leur bon fonctionnement .
il y a aussi la barrière de la langue et de la culture entre les pays de la zone francophone et anglophone qui ne facilitent pas le développement de “ most state agency directors are liars when they ’ re sitting in front of the committee and talking about the budget , ” hutchings said at the news conference .
but with becker , hutchings said , “ it wasn ’ t just , ‘ give us the money and don ’ t ever talk to us again . ’ ”
four-year-old orion qurbonaliev is lucky to be alive .
just last february , the little boy was lying comatose in the tuberculosis ward of a hospital in southern tajikistan .
the bacteria had spread to his spine and paralyzed the right side of his body .
he was severely dehydrated and malnourished .
[ read george soros crises report ] [ thailand in crises ] [ us economy worsens ] [ asia crises better than us ] [ depression safeguards ] [ depression could come ] [ thailand finance news ] [ amex bailout wrong ] [ aig abuse bailout funds ] [ gm & bankruptcy better ] [ pension funds ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] [ investment property guide ] [ borrowing money ] [ using thai company to hold property ] [ best option for foreigners buying ] of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs tajikistan | reliefweb · assistance from azerbaijan makes up the bulk of the region ’ s outgoing aid in 2012 tajikistan “ facts for life : nutrition and growth ” is now available in the tajik language to improve feeding practices of young children gibraltarian and spanish unions draw up manifesto to end harassment of workers homehomehot topics ( 3 new ) current affairsworld newsbusiness & # 38 ; financeindustry sectorstechnologysciencesportlifestyleentertainment & # 38 ; arts ( 220 new ) world newsworld newseuropenorth americalatin americacaribbeanasiaafricamiddle eastsouth pacificeuropeeuropewesternnortherneasternwestern europealbaniaaustriabelgiumcroatiacyprusfrancegermanygibraltargreeceitalykosovomacedoniamaltamontenegronetherlandsportugalrepublic of irelandserbiasloveniaspainswitzerlandunited kingdombalkans many on our books at present .
pattaya has many superstores and supermarkets to choose from .
theres plenty of atms & you can access money anywhere via a meal .
also thai / european food served but has the best deli meats and cheeses & kiwi lamb chops , roasts , kiwi mixed frozen veges etc in pattaya .
the steaks are the best in pattaya and cheap --- where else in thailand can you buy fillet steaks for 50 baht each ? ? ? ?
veges are dearer than the markets but they have to pay rent and bills so its understandable. theres 2 tescos in pattaya and these superstores have everything .
one is on the way to the bkk / pattaya bus station on pattaya nua ( middle ) and the other on the sukhumvit highway going north .
they sell everything from food to appliances like the rest .
ideal for bulk buying .
remember too they have shops from burger king to big macs as well on central pattaya roads and 2nd road have food bars you pick the food then help yourself and eat there or take away .
not very nice decour inside but was one of the first supermarkets in pattaya and is ok and convenient .
the infamous pattaya north soi 6 a must when you come to pattaya as this is the soi where all the girls / kratoys hang out and the most colourful place in pattaya .
near the end is " jack & tars " the beer bar / food looking towards pattaya beach road .
if you have a restaurant in pattaya and want a review just email us and we advertise your restaurant or buffet on our website for free .
just check out the above restaurant review and we will do the same for you .
conditions apply more [ pattaya restaurants : 1 ] [ pattaya restaurants : 2 ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya english breakfast & review ] [ pattaya top seafood review ] [ pattaya foodland prices ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya buses from suvarnabhumbi airport ] [ pattaya bus times suvarnabhumbi airport ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] [ suvarnabhumi all the info you need to know about travel to the phillipines as at 2009 april & compare to pattaya [ thailand finance news ] [ pension funds ] [ depression looms 2008 ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares or invest in finance companies ] the striking priceoctober 3ways to play an end to budget crisis by clicking on the name of the option you will receive the current quote for the underlying instrument , not the option .
reading the judgement in the first case judge samwel karua of the high court mbeya zone sentenced to death rashidi nyerere who was charged with killing his uncle saidi nyerere .
one of the witnesses who is a councillor said after committing the crime the accused went to him and informed him about the incident and his intention to run away to avoid being arrested .
eight villages in lindi region now connected to electricity na prosper makene & ldquo ; i am thrilled to see many houses in my village now connected to electricity .
i was among the first beneficiaries of the gas project .
initially , we were only paying 70,000 / & hellip ; & rdquo ; for his part , mct chairman of think tanker prof. issa shivji said the government should re-consider the local investors in exploring gas and oil in the country . & ldquo ; the government should encourage and support locals to invest in the gas and oil sector so as to avoid loosing our natural resources to foreign investors , & rdquo ; he said .
the ink is barely dry on twitter 's ipo filing and wall street analysts are already weighing in on the company 's soon-to-be-public stock .
in a sign of how hotly anticipated the twitter ( twtr ) ipo is , s ...
the purpose of this office is to ensure the smooth and effective operation of the pastoral center officesinservice to the priests , deacons and laity of the diocese .
world des crimes contre l & # 039 ; environnement de plus en plus liés à la violence et à l & # 039 ; insécurité new york , 7 octobre 2013 ( irin ) - il est admis que le crime environnemental organisé représente une menace pour la sécurité humaine à de multiples égards .
pourtant , les agents de la paix accordent peu d 'importance à ce problème , considéré comme une simple question environnementale relevant des écologistes .
world l ’ ue , le cicr et sept sociétés nationales mettent en lumière la nécessité de protéger les patients et les personnels de santé unissant leurs forces pour mettre en évidence le manque d 'accès aux soins de santé dû à la violence , l ’ union européenne ( ue ) , le comité international de la croix-rouge ( cicr ) et les sociétés nationales de la croix-rouge présentent la campagne « les soins de santé en danger » dans sept capitales européennes .
durant les premiers jours d ’ octobre , des affiches avec des images frappantes ont été exposées à bruxelles , amsterdam et madrid avant de l ’ être à londres , berlin , varsovie et paris .
world informe sobre el desarrollo mundial : riesgo y oportunidad - la administración del riesgo como instrumento de desarrollo la administración del riesgo como instrumento de desarrollo : de la lucha contra las crisis a la administración sistemática del riesgo 6 de octubre 2013 , washington , dc -- en los últimos años , el mundo ha enfrentado múltiples riesgos que afectaron tanto la economía mundial como las vidas , los bienes y la cohesión social en muchos países .
world rapport sur le développement dans le monde : risques et opportunités - la gestion du risque à l ’ appui du développement banque mondiale : une meilleure gestion du risque peut libérer des opportunités , prévenir les crises et protéger les populations pauvres contre les catastrophes et les chocs world la sociedad civil se prepara para hacer oír su voz el director general de la fao inaugura el foro del mecanismo internacional de la sociedad civil sobre seguridad alimentaria y nutrición ( msc ) en vísperas de la reunión del comité de seguridad alimentaria mundial 2個方便的地點 皇后區診所位於法拉盛中心 距離7號地鐵終站 步行約三分鐘 曼哈頓診所 位於小義大利區 交通方便 . 有地鐵和許多公車抵達.2個方便的地點 皇后區診所位於法拉盛中心 距離7號地鐵終站 步行約三分鐘 曼哈頓診所 位於小義大利區 交通方便 . 有地 ... 牙醫博士吳首學主治 二十五年臨床經驗 ， 國立陽明醫學院牙醫學士 ， 紐約大學牙醫博士 ， 前榮總牙科部醫師 診療項目 ： 急性牙痛 ， 根管治療 ， 牙床膿包 牙周手術 ， 各式假牙 ， 智齒拔除 兒童牙科 ， 學前檢查 ， 美容牙科 預約電話 ： 212-683-8883 傳真 : 212- ...
andré bourgeot : & bdquo ; l 'opération serval risque de se transformer en guérilla « andré bourgeot , anthropologue , directeur de recherche émérite au cnrs et le président françois hollande est arrivé le 2 février à sévaré pour une visite éclair au mali au cours de laquelle il appellera les pays africains à prendre le relais de la france auprès de l 'armée malienne , après trois semaines " je vais au mali ( ... ) pour dire à nos soldats tout notre soutien , tous nos encouragements , toute notre fierté , ( ... ) pour permettre que les africains viennent le plus vite possible nous rejoindre et leur dire que nous avons besoin slateafrique - l ’ intervention des troupes françaises au mali est-elle de andré bourgeot - rapidement ?
certes pas !
l 'intervention militaire française a d 'une part stoppé l 'avancée des groupes armés djihadistes qui ont tenté de prendre sévaré , où il y a un aéroport international , et d 'autre part libéré l 'objectif est bien de rétablir la paix qui ne sera effective que lors de la reconquête totale de l 'intégrité du territoire national : cela demandera du temps d 'autant que , pour l 'heure , se sont essentiellement les militaires français qui sont en première ligne , avec une armée malienne affaiblie et dont la chaîne de slateafrique - est-ce que l 'enthousiasme des populations que vous avez observé au mali , par rapport à cette intervention , va durer ?
a.b. -globalement , les réactions sont favorables , en effet .
les populations du nord libérées du joug et de la terreur djihadiste reprennent vie et expriment a bamako , des vendeurs de petits drapeaux tricolores s 'activent sur les trottoirs de la capitale et reprennent le commerce informel , tricolore cette fois : les petits drapeaux qui flottent sont même achetés .
pour autant , est-ce maures et arabes ) manifeste son soulagement et sa joie .
ce qui ne veut pas dire que les groupes armés djihadistes ne disposeront pas , le cas échéant , de relais indépendantiste et laïc , connaît un sérieux déclin , depuis quelques semaines .
il s 'est fait d 'abord bouté hors de gao par le mujao ( mouvement pour l 'unicité du jihad en afrique de l 'ouest ) , puis de ménaka toujours par ce même il tente de rebondir en proposant ses services à l 'armée française , arguant du fait suivant : être des combattants aguerris et de bons connaisseurs de la qui ne renvoie à aucun fondement géographique et encore moins historique. sillonné par les pasteurs nomades maures .
berabich représente une superficie de 380 kilomètres carrés environ .
il souffre d 'un important déficit de légitimité & bdquo ; il est peu probable que la reconquête du nord soit rapide « a.b -tout dépend de ce que vous entendez par & bdquo ; nord « ?
si vous y intégrez toute la partie saharienne ( celle des montagnes , des grottes des dunes , des canyons ) ce qui est convenable et conforme au territoire national du mali , alors il est fort peu probable que la reconquête du nord soit rapide .
s 'emparer des villes de tombouctou , gao , kidal est à la portée des militaires .
mais la partie saharienne , stricto sensu sera une & bdquo ; autre paire de manches « : la slateafrique - l 'armée malienne est-elle capable de jouer un rôle dans la que j 'ai évoquées plus haut .
elle est profondément désorganisée voire divisée , mal équipée .
est-elle fermement motivée ?
récemment les militaires maliens ne recevaient même pas la nourriture nécessaire à la satisfaction de leurs besoins slateafrique - le capitaine sanogo conserve-t-il une grande influence dans le a.b. -il brille actuellement par son mutisme .
on dit qu 'il est au front .
l 'intervention militaire française a contribué à reléguer son influence à la périphérie des enjeux politiques , mais il peut ne pas avoir dit son dernier mot .
cette intervention a conforté la position du président par intérim , dioncounda traoré , au moment où des manifestants à bamako réclamaient à cor et à le pouvoir tricéphale , avant le coup de force perpétré par le capitaine sanogo lors de la destitution de l 'ex-premier ministre cheikh modibo diarra , est devenu bicéphale , puis , pour l ’ heure monocéphale , compte tenu du fait que diango cissoko , actuel premier ministre n 'a pas d 'ambition politique , contrairement à son prédécesseur et se positionne comme grand commis de l 'etat .
slateafrique - la france pourra-t-elle longtemps rester seule en première ligne ?
ne risque-t-elle pas d ’ apparaître comme un pays qui mène une opération a.b. -c 'est déjà fait .
une partie de la presse algérienne l 'accuse de nigériens ) d 'impérialisme .
quoi qu 'il en soit , y a-t-il des etats qui tous les etats défendent des intérêts politiques et économiques .
le mali recèle de prometteuses ressources extractives ( pétrole et gaz dans le site de taoudenni à cheval sur la mauritanie , le mali et l 'algérie , de l 'uranium dans manganèse , du phosphate ...
qui serait insensible à ces richesses ?
d 'autant que d 'autres puissances montantes , telle que la chine est réceptive à ces données .
enfin , le niger voisin recèle , lui , des richesses minières monnaie sonnante : areva est une multinationale française et la france a un fort besoin en uranium : slateafrique - l ’ algérie peut-elle accepter une présence de la france à long éradiquer les groupes djihadistes , l 'algérie peu en être satisfaite .
mais ces & bdquo ; fous de dieu « vont se réfugier où ?
dans les pays riverains , donc potentiellement en algérie .
même si celle-ci a décidé de fermer ses frontières .
comment peut-on & bdquo ; fermer « 1.400 km de frontières communes à des groupes expérimentés dans les activités criminelles , les trafics de toute nature ( cocaïne , cannabis , armes , êtres humains , etc . ) qui ont des relais , ou des complicités dans l 'ensemble de l 'espace sahélo-saharien et qui de surcroît flirtent slateafrique - les troupes ouest-africaines sont elles à même de prendre le a.b. -non , je ne le pense pas : il faudra du temps , de l 'organisation , de l 'argent et que le septentrion soit sécurisé : encore du temps ...
slateafrique - les troupes de certains pays africains , notamment le nigeria , sont réputées pour leur grande brutalité avec les populations civiles .
leur entrée dans le conflit ne risque-t-elle pas d ’ entraîner une radicalisation d ’ une a.b. -l 'intervention militaire vise à modifier les rapports de force militaires mais elle ne résout aucun problème politique et elle en pose même ou en posera d 'autres , probablement dans un laps de temps pas très éloigné .
si slateafrique - s ’ ils quittent leurs fiefs du nord-mali , les djihadistes ne risquent-ils pas de se développer des bases dans tous les pays de la région ?
a.b. -oui , ils vont se replier avec armes et bagages nécessaires , par petits groupes dans certains pays riverains où il existe déjà des & bdquo ; structures d 'accueil « .
il n 'est pas impossible que ces déplacements prennent une forme plus citadine et se manifestent donc dans des villes où des intérêts français sont bien connus et slateafrique - des pays comme le sénégal ou le burkina faso ne risquent-ils a.b. -sans doute moins que le niger et la mauritanie , mais le & bdquo ; moins « dans le slateafrique - si les troupes françaises et africaines parviennent à reprendre le contrôle du nord , sera-t-il possible d ’ organiser rapidement des a.b. -que faut-il entendre par contrôle du nord ?
quid des populations déplacées estimées à environ 200.000 et réfugiées dont le chiffre de 450.000 est je n 'imagine pas que des élections puissent se tenir au vu d 'une seule reconquête militaire des régions du nord du mali .
sauf si l 'on veut des élections bradées , faussement démocratiques qui ne feront que reposer de bien plus graves problèmes : la démocratie , si elle a un sens , ne souffre pas de bricolage ou de conception artisanale , laxiste , et frivole du politique : les caracas — the ambassador siddiq mohamed abdalla has handed over his credentials to the president of venezuela , nicolas maduro , as the ambassador of the republic of sudan to the republic of venezuela .
tragedy leads alexandria firefighter to acquire cadaver dog mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt karen dissipates off gulf coast mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt call him superman , or lucky , but officer overcomes crash sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 14 pm edt corps , authority tangle over levees sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 14 pm edt steamboat stomp adds lecture by doc hawley sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 14 pm edt hundreds attend walk to end alzheimers in ponchatoula sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 14 am edt ex-chief at slu files suit fri oct 4 , 2013 07 : 14 am edt her cool idea is fit for queens sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 14 am edt restructured race on teche sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 14 am edt regents : millions of dollars to attract top profs is going unused sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 14 pm edt cast announced for eunice players ’ theatre ’ s ’ 39 steps ’ mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt councilman wants to ban phones from meetings mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt st. edmund outscores wca in shootout sun oct 6 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt the gameplan : revel , msps and unscene !
mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt ’ silo ’ wins big at lafilmprize mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 14 am edt honda vfr 400cc in konica / minolta colours remolded in thailand tyres and new single or twin yoshimura can .
all bikes on this page were made in chiangmai by a thai owned shop .
you will see how the thais can make superb bikes .
check also pics of the pattaya bike week on choppers .
[ uk manufacturer who makes lightweight parts for all vfrs and cbrs your free classified ad now [ post ad ] promote your company in asia exports ] if you want to come to sunscreen / lipbalm : antarctica is the driest and sunniest continent on earth binoculars : you may not get close enough to pet the wildlife kalapana pit master invited to bbq world championship mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 11 am edt roadwork scheduled for week mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 11 am edt naniloa failed inspections sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 11 am edt ex-guard allegedly profited off gang sat oct 5 , 2013 08 : 11 am edt boehner urges gop solidarity in ’ epic battle ’ sat oct 5 , 2013 08 : 11 am edt hawaii council favors ban on form of fracking fri oct 4 , 2013 08 : 11 am edt snowden ’ s email service in a legal tug of war with the fbi thu oct 3 , 2013 08 : 11 am edt skaters try new trick , propose upcountry park sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 11 am edt candlelight vigil set for wednesday sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 11 am edt no d in big d : praters fg lifts broncos past cowboys 51-48 mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 11 am edt keep your eye on the ball mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 11 am edt likewise , it must be highlighted that disdain abounds for the oas , given its blatant failure to provide laudable mediation of this matter .
the requisite authorities in belmopan , guatemala city and at the oas in washington , d.c. expect the belizean people to allow the covenant that identified 6 october 2013 as the date of the simultaneous referenda to be breached , disrespected , disregarded and ultimately swept under the rug .
as a law abiding people , belizeans can ill-afford to stand idly by and allow this to occur .
it is instructive to note that to-date , no acknowledgement nor any response was afforded the bcj , by ambassador insulza .
this , in my humble opinion , demonstrates complete and utter indifference by the oas on a matter raised by a civil society organisation .
it appears the bjc ’ s attempt at outreach was deemed to be of little significance .
follow us on twitter and like us on facebook for news and conversation .
“ we don ’ t have people saying don ’ t bike , ” he said .
“ skate at your own level .
if you don ’ t have the skill set , stick to the bike path . ”
letter : on the 15th anniversary of the incarceration of the cuban five in the usa antigua-barbuda minister applauds mou between cxc and regional telecoms company online : [ add my company ] insert your pic of your country via computer then you can and the receiver will not be billed .
unfortunately thailand is not on the mtns system as only companies however you can send out of thailand direct to the mobile number in seconds . [ & asia trading post co ltd by way of contract .
all breaches of our copyright will be deemed an infringement on the copyrights of this to help finance its acquisition of conocophillips in nigeria , oando has arranged for its parent company to carry its shares in brass lng . ( ... )
only days before a meeting in abuja on sept .
18-19 to be attended by all of the consortiums pre-qualified to bid in the second round of the nigerian power industry ’ s privatization , ( ... )
former oil adviser to nigerian presidents olusegun obasanjo , umaru yar ’ adua and ( ... )
bujumbura - a burundian court opened the trial friday of a " we argued that the arrest of our client was arbitrary and we called for his temporary release .
the court adjourned for consultation , " on july 12 , a day after the kampala bombings , he wrote that on the opposite end of the dining spectrum are the likes of le pressoir and le cottage , some of the finer french restaurants in the area .
when it comes to service , food preparation and quality , and wine pairings , a night in one of these dining rooms makes it clear why st martin is widely considered the fine dining capital of the caribbean .
they do it right !
in north carolina , mccrory will succeed a governor , democrat bev perdue , who narrowly beat him for the job four years ago .
perdue chose not to run for a second term , after a string of controversies dogged mexico , jan brewer of arizona and mary fallin of oklahoma . )
m23 , les raisons d ’ une fissure et de la reddition de bosco ntaganda le 23 a éclaté en deux groupes qui se sont même affronté à l ’ arme lourde .
coup de théâtre ou réalité ?
des commentaires sont allés dans tous les sens .
pour ceux qui maitrisent la réalité de l ’ est du congo , tout ceci était né de cendres du cndp de laurent nkunda , le m23 avait dans son sein deux tendances antagonistes qui ont fini par étaler au grand public leurs c ’ est depuis 2009 que le clivage s ’ est établit au sein de ce qui va devenir le mécontent de la distance que laurent nkunda , alors chef du cndp , commençait à avoir vis-à-vis des hommes du pouvoir rwandais , kigali , de connivence avec kinshasa , va décider de le retirer de la scène pour passer la main à bosco ntaganda .
question de continuer à avoir la main mise sur toutes les transactions mis au froid au rwanda , laurent nkunda bénéficiait toujours de l ’ estime de nombreux combattants du cndp du nombre duquel se trouvait le colonel makenga .
soutenu par kigali et kinshasa , bosco ntaganda va se faire nommer général fardc avec plein pouvoir dans la région du kivu .
au nom de la paix , le pouvoir de ceci jusqu ’ au début de 2013 quand une forte pression internationale pesait sur kinshasa exigeant l ’ arrestation de bosco ntaganda et son transfèrement a la cpi .
mis au parfum de l ’ éventualité de son arrestation , bosco ntaganda va décider de faire défection des fardc et retourner dans le maquis .
l ’ occasion faisant le larron , les autres ex-combattants cndp intégrés dans le fardc vont trouver l ’ opportunité de revendiquer des insuffisances dans la mise en œuvre des bosco étant indexé par la cpi , le dévolu a été jeté sur sultani makenga pour diriger cette nouvelle insurrection .
le choix de sultani makenga rencontrait les attentes de kigali et kinshasa pour qui bosco ntaganda devenait très encombrant .
malgré cela , ce général rebelle continuait à avoir de l ’ emprise sur certains le 20 novembre 2012 , quand la ville de goma tombe entre les mains de m23 , des avis étaient très divergents quant à la manière de gérer cette victoire dans les la direction politique du m23 confiée à jean marie runiga ne parlait pas le même langage avec le chef militaire sultani makenga .
pour runiga et bosco ntaganda il fallait maintenir la pression sur la ville de goma et exiger des préalables à remplir par le gouvernement de kinshasa à défaut de continuer à pendant que la direction politique s ’ époumoner à faire prévaloir certains préalables , contre toute attente , sultani makenga va se rendre à kampala et décider unilatéralement de négocier avec kinshasa sans condition .
c ’ était comme une douche froide pour runiga , bosco ntaganda et les hommes de leur obédience , une pilule amère difficile à avaler .
a l ’ époque , certaines langues faisaient croire même que makenga a été soudoyé par le pouvoir de kinshasa pour accepter pendant les négociations de kampala , le m23 a été déclaré force négative par la ainsi la marge de manœuvre de cette rébellion .
de quoi inquiéter bosco ntaganda recherché par la cpi et jean marie runiga sous sanction de la communauté internationale .
la scission devenait donc impérieuse .
ce que vont tenter de faire le tandem runiga et bosco en ouvrant des hostilités contre les hommes de la tendance makenga .
mais , c ’ était sans compter avec kinshasa et kigali qui tenaient à se débarrasser de bosco ntaganda , ce témoin gênant .
les deux capitales ne voulaient plus de cet homme qui en savait déjà trop sur des magouilles de leurs pouvoirs respectifs à l ’ est de la rdc .
l ’ ordre a été donné à makenga de traquer bosco , le capturer et le déférer devant la justice .
tout toutes les tentatives de bosco ntaganda pour se retrancher vers le masisi ont été stoppées net par les hommes de makenga .
il ne lui restait qu ’ un plus choix : ntaganda se livre à la cpi , kinshasa et kigali court-circuités sentant venir le danger , aussitôt arrivé au rwanda , bosco ntaganda a vite fait de se rendre à l ’ ambassade des usa à kigali pour demander asile et son extradition à la cpi .
en agissant ainsi , cet ancien chef d ’ etat major du cndp a fait preuve d ’ une méfiance totale envers les pouvoirs de kigali et de kinshasa qu ’ il a longtemps servi .
l ’ homme redoutait même le pire pour sa vie .
la volonté de bosco ntaganda de se rendre à la cpi ne date pas d ’ aujourd ’ hui .
nos sources renseignent que ce général avait , en vain , demander au pouvoir de kinshasa de le dédommager pour le travail lui rendu avant de l ’ envoyer à la cpi .
un million de dollars , c ’ est la somme que ce général rebelle exigeait à kinshasa kinshasa , pour des raisons qui lui sont propres , n ’ avait jamais prêté oreille comme laurent nkunda , bosco ntaganda n ’ a pas été extradé en rdc par le rwanda .
c ’ est toute la mesure des bons rapports caractérisant le rwanda et la rdc .
l ’ histoire a tendance à toujours se répéter à l ’ est de la rdc s ’ agissant de sa situation sécuritaire .
depuis l ’ avènement de l ’ afdl en 1997 , cette partie du congo vit dans une insécurité quasi permanente .
transformée en sanctuaire des groupes armés , tant nationaux qu ’ étrangers , la partie orientale de la rdc ne rassure plus ses habitants confrontés , de manière permanente , à diverses ici , des rebellions naissent toujours des cendres d ’ autres .
c ’ est à croire qu ’ il y aurait une certaine programmation des malheurs qui s ’ abattent sur les populations de l ’ est de la rdc .
les tireurs des ficelles s ’ organiseraient pour maintenir la déstabilisation de la partie orientale du congo .
dans leurs tactiques , ils s ’ appuient sur des conflits identitaires qui minent cette contrée .
en 1996 , tout est partie d ’ une révolte de banyamulenge ( tusi ) qui avait fini par se muer en une rébellion dénommée afdl .
en 1998 , une brouille entre le pouvoir kabila père et ses mentors tutsi de l ’ afdl a donné naissance à la quand il fallait former le gouvernement de transition en 2004 , le rdc / goma est allé à kinshasa laissant derrière lui une troupe de réserve chapeauté par jules mutebusi et laurent nkunda .
c ’ est ce noyau laissé par le rcd qui a tout ceci porte à croire que la question de la survie tutsi en rdc préoccuperait plusieurs décideurs du monde au point qu ’ ils en feraient l ’ l ’ une des clés pour résoudre la question sécuritaire en rdc .
sinon , comment comprendre cette succession d ’ insurrection tutsi bénéficiant du soutien de certains milieux les clivages entre les différentes communautés linguistiques présentes dans la partie orientale du congo ainsi que la problématique d ’ exploitation des richesses naturelles de l ’ est du congo , sont d ’ autres raisons à la base de qu ’ adviendra-t-il après cette rébellion du m23 ?
plusieurs congolais ne ann arbor saline road and i-94 ramps set for concrete patching sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 16 pm edt grading the superintendent : ann arbor ’ s new school leader earns a for communication sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 16 am edt ’ i ’ m not what they made me ’ mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt man arrested after meth lab found in springfield mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt chuck carlson : ceresco faces an uncertain future the best it can mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt kilpatrick ’ s attorney seeks shorter prison term for ’ destitute and disgraced ’ ex-mayor sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt kwame kilpatrick pal bobby ferguson ’ s wife files for divorce sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt benny napoleon asks krystal crittendon to serve as detroit deputy mayor if he is elected sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt benny napoleon asks krystal crittendon to serve as deputy mayor if he is elected sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 16 pm edt the truth about detroit : gilbert has done a lot for detroit , but he did not found campus martius sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 16 pm edt the high cost of corruption : how kwame kilpatrick ’ s crimes deepened detroit ’ s crisis sun oct 6 , 2013 08 : 16 am edt don ’ t act like you ’ re not impressed : ’ anchorman ’ character ron burgundy to promote dodge durango in ads mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt detroit police chief to host ’ call to action ’ today sat oct 5 , 2013 08 : 16 am edt volunteers to beautify detroit school ’ s play area sat oct 5 , 2013 08 : 16 am edt fiancee of suspect in family dollar slayings recants statement fri oct 4 , 2013 2 : 16 pm edt police accuse waterford twp. motorist of pointing gun at a truck driver tue mar 26 , 2013 10 : 16 pm edt ’ gravity ’ soars to top of weekend box office sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 16 pm edt chesterfield twp. man arraigned in bank robbery fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 16 pm edt eminem shuns spotlight at daughter ’ s coronation sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 16 pm edt man sought in attempt to abduct 2 pontiac girls sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 16 pm edt crittendon could be on napoleon ’ s ticket in detroit mayor race mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt pride propels proposal to restore malcolm x residence in inkster mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt guyton loses house to fire mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 16 am edt a pint of beer should measure up under new michigan bill sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 16 pm edt mandi and jinx are this week ’ s saginaw county pets of the week sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 16 pm edt the saginaw news and the bay city times net top honors from michigan press association sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 16 pm edt wafanyakazi wa mashirika ya umma wachuana ktk mashindano ya mbio za baiskeli ya shimiwi oas supports and certifies destruction of weapons in costa rica we could go on , because each example is hilarious , but why spoil your own fun of trying the bookmarklet out yourself .
cm visits noelle carter at the la times test kitchen & ldquo ; i condemn the killing of luis de jesús lima and call on the authorities to do all in their power to bring the culprits of this crime to trial , & rdquo ; director-general irina bokova said in a news release .
the northern cross - catechesis and apologeticsliz hoefferle : as individuals and family , we share mission of priestshow the ordained and laity carry out that mission differs , but has same threefold basethe diocese of duluth once again has the opportunity to rejoice as three young men will be ordained to the holy priesthood , with two more being ordained to the transitional diaconate during this month of june.through the sacrament of holy orders , they will be consecrated in christ ’ s name & ldquo ; to feed the church by the word and grace of god & rdquo ; ( lumen gentium 11 ) .we are truly blessed by the generous response of these young men , which allows us to be nourished by god ’ s word and to grow in his grace.priest , prophet and kingmen who have been called by god to serve as priests and thus receive the sacrament of holy orders are empowered to act as representatives of jesus christ and to carry out christ ’ s threefold mission as priest , prophet and king .
oas supports and certifies destruction of arms and ammunition in dominica liat to receive us $ 65 million from cdb for fleet modernisation four teams out of the 14 have managed to keep unbeaten run up to the end of the seventh round of the mainland premier soccer league .
simba 's newest scoring sensational khamis tambwe is again on the spotlight as the dar es salaam giants will be away to ruvu shooting at the national stadium in dar es salaam tomorrow .
dar es salaam gymkhana club will for the firth year in a row host the annual bq open junior tennis tournament mid next month .
simba ’ s marksman khamis tambwe has set up a target of twenty goals at the end of the first half of the ongoing mainland premiership soccer season .
the burundi international who signed for simba at the beginning of this season , declared his mission during an interview at the end of the team ’ s practise session in dares salaam yesterday .
young africans ugandan import khamis kiiza has vowed to track simba striker khamis tambwe in the race towards golden boot award for the unfolding premiership season .
the yanga striker who scored the only goal against ruvu shootring last saturday at the national stadium in dar es salaam has taken his tally to two after as many appearances .
it ’ s hard to suggest that the dar es salaam side is on its way to the relegation tunnel as plenty of time and games remain on the fixture .
jkt ruvu and simba goalkeepers shaaban dihile and abel dharia have so kept the longest clean sheets of 270 minutes between the posts .
regional commissioner evarist ndikilo who was accompanied by the city ’ s mayor stanslaus mabula confirmed to the tanzania football federation ’ s president leodegar tenga that the authorities will give boost by contributing a staggering $ 118,000 for the installation of the turf .
hosts rhino rangers and ashanti united are scheduled to meet in their first leg tie of the mainland premiership to be played at the ali hassan mwinyi stadium in tabora this evening .
the finals will be held in namibia and the first leg match is scheduled to be staged in lusaka between february 13 and 15 .
the cycling association of tanzania ( chabata ) has chopped down entry fees for aspiratnts who need to contest for the body ; s general election as confirmed by chairman nazil manji in dar es salaam yesterday .
kinondoni – based top land club cruise to national pool champions at te end of the championship staged in morogoro over the weekend .
so far results of 28 matches played refelcets a mixed outcome as some of the underdogs have tried hard to shrug of their tag .
the government has said it is concerned with the poor form of athletics in the country and there is a need for immediate action to serve the situation .
the tournamwent has drawn selected teams from the continent where airtel operates and agege township stadium is the venue for the event .
previously the deadline was to be last sunday but a firther extension was entettained to lure more entries .
makasi who joined simba during the previous season sustained injury in one of the premiership matches to stay on the sidelines for the rest of the season .
simba sc say that mtibwa sugar should not expect an easy ride against them as it was the case in the last season .
for us a player to win contract in europe heralds maturity and elevation of his football status as well as the country .
maokola , who was escorted by kimbau up to the mwalimu nyerere international airport in dar es salaam ahead of boarding the flight to rome , would not meet his host after landing safely .
kinondoni opened the floodgates through ozil kaloli ’ s brace , fesa rajab , pascal katambo and majid mussa who concluded the rout .
blog archivelatest from svaboda.org пяць беларусак вывучаць бундэстаг знутры сытуацыя вакол логвінава , або ці ўспомняць чыноўнікі пра скарыну жывое відэа : канцэрт памяці ганны паліткоўскай у беларусі будуць шукаць сланцавы газ агп : беларусь можа страціць сотні тысяч працоўных месцаў radio svaboda ( in belarusian ) features & commentary namei group inc is a certified and independent travel agency in flushing , new york and set up its subsidiary in beijing .
we mia ... 紐約華美旅遊位於法拉盛市中心40 rd上 ， 為代理全方位旅遊行程及機票的專業旅行社 專辦 ： 專業規劃各類行程 婚禮蜜月行程規劃 美國至全球各地廉價機票 中國至美國機票 美國買票 ， 中國取票 歐洲中國旅遊團 美加東各地旅遊團 代理各大豪華遊輪 台灣精緻環島遊 ...
site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeo infos de dernière minute , photos et opinions sur al huffington post maghreb le conseil de la choura communique sa propre feuille de route ...
maintien du gouvernement jusqu 'à la fin du processus constitutionnel ...
une assemblée constituante avec l 'ensemble de ses prérogatives dialogue national - ceux qui pensent que l 'opposition s 'est frotté les mains de joie à la lecture du 18ème communiqué de meljess echoura se trompent .
sans faire de l 'angélisme politique , je sais pertinemment que cet énième dérobade d 'ennahdha n 'est pas de bonne augure pour le pays , qui devra encore attendre pour sortir de la crise .
les chasseurs chevronnés connaissent la dangerosité de l ' " ours blessé " quand il est acculé . c 'est malheureusement à cette image que m 'ont mené les innombrables arnaques auxquelles s 'est prêtée cette troïka depuis deux ans .
historien des mentalités et des religions en afrique du nord integrisme - il est légitime d 'utiliser tous les moyens pour combattre l 'intégrisme afin de sauver le printemps arabe de cette dérive et , grâce à un peuple qui continue à fonctionner au quotidien , les intégristes seront exclus de l 'espace public dans le but de réaliser le rêve révolutionnaire , à savoir une société démocratique , tolérante et plurielle .
religion - je veux briser les tabous imposés par l 'islam des rigoristes , arrimer cette religion magnifique aux données du temps présent .
pendant des années , les musulmans ont été les otages des fondamentalistes , de leur sémantique , de leur timing .
il est temps de les contrer .
islam politique - la tunisie ne tombera pas dans le terrorisme aveugle qu 'a connu l 'irak , ou celui de l 'algérie de la décennie 1990 .
la tunisie ne sera par ailleurs jamais le liban .
par contre , la psychose du terrorisme risque de l 'emporter : le terrorisme est une guerre des nerfs .
pour le vaincre , il faut vaincre la peur .
linguiste et lexicographe , est directeur éditorial des éditions le robert et président d ’ honneur du festival du mot langue française - bien des mots courants en français viennent à notre insu des langues arabe , persane et turque .
ils reflètent les richesses des civilisations islamiques , dans les sciences ( le mot chiffre vient de sifr , qui signifie en arabe " vide , néant " , à propos du zéro ) , dans la connaissance des animaux ( la girafe , le chacal , parmi beaucoup d 'autres ) ou des plantes ( tel le lilas , qu 'on croirait français ) .
révolution - les débuts de ce que certains ont appelé le " printemps arabe " semblaient prometteurs pour la jeunesse tunisienne .
toutefois , le constat actuel de la condition de la jeunesse tunisienne est incontestablement tragique .
politique - nous intègrerons nida tounes en bloc uni , sous la forme d 'un courant ( tayar ) .
notre courant apportera certainement beaucoup à nida tounes et au paysage politique , de par sa diversité et de par son expérience dans les partis politiques auxquels nous avons appartenu .
algérie - le chef de l 'etat s 'est exécuté en direct , devant de millions d 'algériens découvrant leur président de la république impotent , dans une posture pour le moins inconfortable , en tout cas indigne du rang et de la fonction qu 'incarne le personnage .
est-ce la première fois ?
non !
discréditant les institutions , violant la lettre et l 'esprit de la loi fondamentale , alors qu 'il est censé en être le gardien , bouteflika désacralise la fonction présidentielle et amoindrit sa stature .
irva - peu importe qu 'aqmi ( al qaïda au maghreb islamique ) s 'écrive avec " q " , " k " ou " c " , surtout quand ses " enseignes " locales semblerait avoir trouvé asile à la " qasbah " ou à montplaisir , sièges respectifs du gouvernement tunisien et d 'ennahdha .
entrepreunariat - je connaissais l 'artisanat tunisien comme un touriste de passage en tunisie le connaît : une foison d 'objets se ressemblant tous , sans aucune âme ni originalité .
je ne connaissais pas ces artisans qui perpétuent les gestes de leurs ancêtres tout en y puisant leur inspiration pour moderniser les objets qu 'ils créent .
etats-unis - les républicains ont choisi de se montrer injustes , d 'être irrationnels au sens propre du terme .
puisqu 'ils ne peuvent pas gagner - et puisqu 'ils se sont placés de telle sorte que tout ce qui n 'est pas une victoire s 'apparente à une cuisante défaite - , ils ont préféré arrêter le jeu .
finances - on nous annonce à grand bruit les principaux contours de la loi de finances 2014 , mais à y regarder de plus près , je suis tenté de reprendre à mon compte l 'expression arabe : " j 'entends la fanfare , mais je ne vois point de tambour ! "
l 'adoption d 'une loi de finances suppose la discussion du budget de l 'état et des choix qui y sont faits .
ceux-là déclinent sur l 'année à venir la vision et les projets à moyen terme .
et c 'est bien ce qui manque à ces premières révélations du ministre .
société - c 'est une question que je me pose souvent : comment est-ce qu 'une personne peut continuer à croire que l 'on peut être musulman et laïc en même temps ?
en fait , un musulman laïc est un couscous aux côtes de porc , un verre de thé au whisky , une danseuse du ventre voilée , un barman jihadiste .
deux antonymes qui ne peuvent se rassembler .
report du procès de la journaliste hend meddeb et de deux rappeursfacebook / hind meddeb algérie : hrw dénonce les entraves à la création de syndicatshuman rights watch tunisie : jihad al-nikah " un phénomène limité " selon un haut responsable sécuritaireflickr / kaptain kobold le périple de trois soeurs syriennes en exil , victimes de la crise en egyptebenoît le corre / félix guillou l 'accession rapide des génies de la high-tech au rang de milliardairesafp mustapha kamel nabli sort de sa réserve flickr / world economic foruml 'ancien gouverneur de la bct appelle à " éviter la lecture superficielle des indicateurs " " hiwar " ou " himar " ?
l 'énorme lapsus d 'abdessatar ben moussaflickr / zoom artbrush comment le petit nicolas a fait le grand saut maghrébinimav éditions wahbi khazri assure au sein du fc bastia en attendant le match avec la sélection nationalefacebook / wahbi khazri madonna révèle avoir été violée dans sa jeunesse à new yorkreuters ne vous baignez jamais dans ce lac qui change les animaux en pierrenick brandt fashion week de paris : les 20 choses à piquer ou à laisser aux podiums le passeport tunisien : numéro 1 au maghreb , 6ème du monde arabeconsulat tunisie © 2013 indexmundi - all rights reservedhotels and accommodation in bangkok least you saw khao san--wow ? ? ! ! .
but , the bag taking is getting much the " toy boys " have arrived .
it has a swimming pool and of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs 世界新聞網-北美華文新聞 、 華商資訊 - 科技新聞 registered users can request assistance from our professional editors.români în lume | cadran politic în urmă cu un secol , take lo ­ nescu s-a remarcat în ţară şi apoi pe plan european ca o stră ­ lucită personalitate politică .
s-a născut într-o familie modestă , la ploieşti , la 13 / 25 octombrie 1858 .
pe linie ma ­ ternă se trăgea dintre românii bal ­ canici .
a terminat studiile liceale la cole ­ giul sfântul sava , perioadă în care a fost atras spre literatură publicând nuvele , versuri ...
nicolae de hohenzolern ( 1903-1977 ) , un prinţ al româniei prin europa cel de-al patrulea dintre cei şase copii , băieţi şi fete , ai foştilor monarhi ai româniei , regele ferdinand şi regina maria , s-a născut la sinaia la 5 august 1903 .
în calitate de fiu al familiei moştenitoare a tronului româniei , era nepot al unor capete încoronate ale europei având drept bunici pe linie maternă atât pe regina victoria a angliei , cât şi pe ţarul alexandru al ii-lea ...
despre românii moldoveni care locuiesc în rusia sovietică sau mai bine zis în republica autonomă moldovenească , înfiinţată în anul 1924 , ştim deocamdată relativ puţin .
în decursul unui deceniu de existenţă , întinderea teritoriului acestei republici a fost schimbată de mai multe ori şi o dată cu ea s-a modificat , bineînţeles , şi numărul total al populaţiei .
republica moldovenească ...
george emil palade & # 8211 ; primul român laureat al premiului nobel george emil palade a avut astfel un rol hotărâtor în evoluţia unei noi ştiinţe , despre care , un savant român afirma recent : “ biologia celulară la ora actuală este ştiinţa fundamentală a medicinii .
nu se poate vorbi de nici un proces medical fără ea & # 8230 ; pentru că tot ceea ce înseamnă viaţă este studiat prin această nouă ştiinţă ” .
între ierarhii bisericii române din secolul trecut , mitropolitul visarion puiu a fost o perso ­ nalitate deosebită .
s-a născut în oraşul paşcani , în 1879 , şi a murit în exil lân ­ gă paris , în august 1964 .
după studii teologice făcute la iaşi şi la bucureşti , şi-a desăvârşit pregătirea teologică la celebra academie ortodoxă de la kiev , făcând o vreme studii şi în centrul ...
" the film 's pleasures may be too minor-key and its pace too meandering to conquer the mainstream , " wrote david rooney for the hollywood reporter .
" but audiences willing to tune in to its blend of surreal fantasy , droll comedy and poignancy will be rewarded . "
" the secret life of walter mitty " is out in theaters on christmas day .
tazara owners asked to take bold decisions on tumbling firm na waryoba yankami largest export database classifieds in thailand .
if you want anything let us in our new hardcopy classified news in bangkok , thailand .
post free ads [ classifieds in thailand ] [ read services offered ads ] [ read ads ] for our buy , sell , exchange newspaper read in bangkok , pattaya to products ] [ arriving bangkok ] [ see online ads ] [ back paintings ] [ wood doors ] [ motorcycle exports ] boxes & eskies ] [ bike t shirts ] [ jeans ] [ china minibikes & off roaders ] [ oil paintings & reproductions ] tops ] [ lacquerware pictures and frames ] [ jockey ain ’ t that peculiarjets players and coaches have quirks to attend to “ i was almost in a panicked state , ” said mcdonald , who coaches the jets ’ defensive backs .
mcdonald was fastidious in his preparation .
before games , he would lay out his outfit in front of his locker so that it looked like a ghost wearing a uniform .
when he played for san francisco , it was imperative that the red in his socks would start right below the bulge of his calf muscle .
that his glove tore so close to kickoff did not bode well .
or so he thought .
that day , mcdonald had two interceptions .
from then on , he said , he would use a razor blade or the trainer ’ s athletic tape cutters to scratch a little slit in his gloves .
it turned out all right for him .
he made six pro bowls .
ticketnetwork is a resale marketplace and is not a box office or venue. bandits , not rebels , but for the people living in the rukoko marshes , the cause richard , whose job is to collect charcoal , is one of very in the desolate landscape of tree stumps undulating away to " they are as poor as i am and have nothing to lose , " the rukoko marshes had warned everyone to vacate the area but nobody took them torched several houses in the area , " says anicet , one of the two other labourers .
on one of the ghost farms , cowpats dry in the sun , a few " the herders got the message and took their cattle to spate of killings were the work of gangs of " unidentified armed bandits " and but since a string of elections kicked off in may with opportunity for burundi to prove its democratic credentials and seal the end of " there is no doubt , the people we saw are not simple thugs , new kalashnikov assault rifles in the rukoko marshes and adjacent kibira forest. officer says as he trundles on through the swampy terrain .
the extreme dryness of the air causes any heat that is radiated back into the atmosphere to be lost instead of being absorbed by the water vapor in the atmosphere .
the source of this energy is the sun , and because its heating effect is greater at the equator than at the poles , it creates a circulation in the atmosphere .
hot moist air rises over the equator and flows at a high level towards the poles , where it cools and sinks .
the equator is therefore a region of low pressure , and the poles are regions of high pressure .
the atmosphere is not a closed system .
it interacts with the land , the ocean , and the ice ; and the ice in turn interacts with the ocean.winds create currents in the ocean .
the annual cycle of freezing and melting of the sea ice around antarctica creates a vertical circulation in the ocean .
" antarctica is the coldest , highest , windiest , driest , and iciest continent on earth " pet of the week : trinity sun apr 15 , 2012 01 : 18 am edt warm weather brings out golfers thu jan 5 , 2012 11 : 18 am est sprucing up dc park fri oct 7 , 2011 7 : 18 pm edt demand strong for nebraska ’ angel ’ tax credit sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 18 pm edt we knew this would not be easy sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 18 am edt fund is set up for tasha baxter sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 18 am edt new aerial photography on city web map sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 18 am edt if you have hope , you can survive , thrive in the jungle sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 18 am edt teens chances of buying electronic cigarettes in kearney are going up in smoke sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 18 am edt aaa is charged up to test and recycle car batteries mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 18 am edt lincolnites killed in crash may have underestimated storm ’ s power sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 18 pm edt by tuesday , superior roundabout should be one lane shorter sun oct 6 , 2013 05 : 18 am edt bernard h. koetter fri oct 4 , 2013 3 : 18 pm edt benkelman man running for legislature fri oct 4 , 2013 3 : 18 pm edt indianola group hopes to build new playground fri oct 4 , 2013 3 : 18 pm edt one last look at summer fri oct 4 , 2013 3 : 18 pm edt cat pack to the rescue , again fri oct 4 , 2013 3 : 18 pm edt striding into fall sun oct 6 , 2013 05 : 18 am edt colorado escapee was non-violent prisoner sat oct 5 , 2013 05 : 18 am edt four arrested in three meth busts sat oct 5 , 2013 05 : 18 am edt al qaeda leader al libi caught in libya sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 18 am edt depth of neighborhood eyesore could be dangerous sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 18 pm edt siouxland storms : ’ it really is a miracle ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 18 am edt the $ 80,000 corvette stayed in nebraska , and got a bath sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 18 pm edt united states attorney preet bharara said : & ldquo ; after three years of fighting his extradition , alfonso portillo has finally arrived in the united states to answer for his alleged misappropriation of millions of dollars intended for the benefit of the people of guatemala and which he laundered through united states banks .
our ability to hold him to account for his alleged criminality and corruption is the result of the unrelenting commitment and dedication of our prosecutors and our law enforcement partners in both the united states and guatemala . & rdquo ; ecuador 's congress authorizes oil drilling in yasuni reserve in amazon how to get there : from suvannabhumi airport , bangkok , buses leave all the time for pattaya and cost 173 baht to jomtien or & cost 200 baht to the bus tgerminal on pattaya north rd .
avis offer a limo service for 2,200 is a direct bus from the arcade bus station : nachonchai air .
this is an or take a train from pattaya to bangkok 33 baht then hop on the overnight to the police can 't or won 't help you if you hire a jet ski then you sink it or turn sharply and it fills up with water .
the motto in thailand " whatever you hire whatever is damaged stolen or lost , you pay " so you hire a bike , or jetski at your own risk .
you can however negotiate a lesser amount which you are nuts if you don 't do but never say you will pay as then the price remians the same or can now go higher .
to hire a jet ski can cost you around 800baht per 1 / 2 hour but in september 2009 they want 1000baht per 1 / 2 hour .
good fun but don 't hit anyone swimming or damage the jetski as it will cost you .
there is no such thing as insurance for jet ski hire so you do so knowing if something goes wrong you pay .
if you blow the motor then its your fault so remember these things if youre game enough to rent one .
for my money stay clear of the damn things & there is a scam at the moment as times are tight at the moment .
as you will find when it happens to you hiring a jetski can be bliss or a nightmare .
many of the jetskis are thrashed by their thai owners and they can be bought second hand at jssr auction for 100,000baht or so .
but most people who hire them are never asked to see a check sheet of damage or any dents rips etc in the coulings etc so once you bring it back the nice ride can turn into a nightmare .
some times the thais will not even let you leave the beach but as you have no money you demand to see a tourist police .
in pattaya they have 2 foreigners on hand at the beach rd police station .
insist on it or send someone to bring them back ?
these jetskis in pattaya & phuket are thrashed and when they start using oil its easy to drain them and let you hire it ? ? ? --guess who pays & the asking price for a a new motor min 77,000baht .
solutions ] [ security protection ] [ security & intelligence reports ] [ pedophilia [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya digital film ] [ pattaya english breakfasts ] [ pattaya best food ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya buffet dinners ] [ pattaya tesco , big c ] [ pattaya beach ] [ pattaya tourist handy tips ] [ pattaya beach road ] [ pattaya best restaurants ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire scam ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya driving license ] [ pattaya car hire ] [ pattaya motorcycle hire ] [ pattaya pickups & loads ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ pattaya police & foreign volunteers ] [ pattaya scams ] [ pattaya property scams ] [ buying cars in thailand ] [ buying motorcycles in thailand ] [ pattaya bike week 2009 ] [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] [ more bang saen pics ] razorbacksone moore thoughtask a wildlife officerhogs & sec videolocal sportsnhlstatisticsstandingsfull schedulemlbfull schedulestandingsstatisticsnflstandingsfull schedulestatisticsnbafull schedulestatisticsstandingscollegecollege basketballcollege footballncaa videomore sportspgageneral sports newswnbatennislpganascarsoccerindy racing leagueraceweekpgafearless friday top storiesnews near youworldu.s.businesstechnologyentertainmentmiley cyrusgravityscarlett johanssonhalle berryjustin bieberamerican psychobig fishoregonrudyard kiplingthe today showsportssciencehealthspotlighttop storiesnews near youworldu.s.businesstechnologyentertainmentsportssciencehealthspotlightentertainmentnew york daily newssee realtime coveragemiley cyrus jokes about her mtv vma performance , parodies " we can 't stop ... e !
online- & lrm ; 55 minutes ago & lrm ; miley cyrus was on her best behavior on saturday night live .
hosting the show for the second time , the " wrecking ball " crooner ditched twerking for the night , kept her tongue in her mouth and kept her clothes on , albeit one segment where she and new cast ... related miley cyrus breaking broadway : bryan cranston to swap meth empires for the president 's ... contactmusic.com - by jack de aguilarbryan cranston to make broadway debut as lbjusa todaysee all 41 sourcesrelated bryan cranston philly.comsee realtime coverage 'today ' superfan linny boyette diesusa today21 minutes agowritten byann oldenburg " for so many years , the first person we saw " was linny boyette said matt lauer this morning on today .
boyette was a superfan of the show , and viewers often saw him on camera , standing with the crowds gathered outside the show . ' today ' hosts pay tribute to superfan , linny boyettewitn 'today ' hosts pay tribute to show 's ' superfan 'seattle post intelligencerhighly cited : today show pays tribute to deceased superfan linny boyettetv guidesee all 59 sourcesrelated : the today show described as a foreign fighter commander for al shabaab in lilia martha cisneros muller - realtor in playa del carmen abc news-world - more headlinesmalala ’ s mission : the malala fund mon oct 7 , 2013 07 : 40 am edt cnn-us - more headlinesmiley cyrus on ’ snl ’ : ’ hannah montana ’ is dead mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 30 am edt four men rescued west of guadeloupe after being lost at sea for six days this will be an exciting game to watch on a blustery october saturday .
the weather is about to take a turn so if you are heading just north of the russian bottoms , be sure to wear two pairs of husker bottoms .
although my suggestions about new homelands in council bluffs or the ozarks may not ( yet ) be heeded , my attempts at achieving lasting middle east peace have beenjust assuccessful as our presidents ' over the years .
you will be redirected to the page you want to view inseconds . © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressoops !
page not found . the mortgage interest deduction is one of the largest tax expenditures in the u.s. tax code but the rate at which it is claimed and the average amount deducted vary widely across and within states .
more hama amadou 's decision to take his party , the moden / lumana , out of the new government is the clearest sign yet that he intends to run for president in 2016 . ( ... )
economic planning minister amadou boubacar cisse has persuaded president mahamadou issoufou to cancel the contract of russia ’ s zbs to build the kandadji dam . ( ... )
the authorities in niger moved on july 18 to cancel a contract awarded to russia ’ s zarubezhvodstroy ( zbs ) concern to build the 125 mw hydropower dam at kandadji . ( ... )
motorcyclist killed in wreck sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 19 pm edt joe downtown : heading to fremont tonight ?
have your id handy fri oct 4 , 2013 8 : 19 pm edt gallery : naacp meets the ku klux klan mon sep 2 , 2013 10 : 41 am edt wyoming homeowner facing foreclosure ?
here ’ s where to get free counseling sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 41 pm edt ap impact : tribes mishandle funds , go unpunished mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 41 am edt historic governor ’ s mansion closing for six weeks mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 41 am edt da : motorcyclist had key role in nyc suv brawl sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 41 pm edt how ada accessible are city buildings ?
sun oct 6 , 2013 08 : 41 am edt where did all the snow go ?
sat oct 5 , 2013 08 : 41 am edt palisades boundary redrawn , needs ok wed oct 2 , 2013 02 : 41 am edt showdown shutters parks wed oct 2 , 2013 02 : 41 am edt schacht crowned king wed sep 25 , 2013 12 : 41 am edt wyo. a griz graveyard wed sep 18 , 2013 02 : 41 am edt steamboat hotel guest in standoff sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 08 pm edt return to the home page.2013 big red breakfast tickets on sale now rothman furniture ceo seat passes to new generation fri oct 4 , 2013 12 : 18 pm edt metro-east boy killed when tv crushes him while riding in car sat oct 5 , 2013 8 : 18 pm edt alorton boy killed when tv falls on him sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 18 pm edt liriano escapes third-inning jam sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 18 pm edt us government work is losing cachet for some sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 18 pm edt a look at pension problems , solutions in us cities sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 18 pm edt san antonio leaders weigh in on citys bioscience push fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt ibex global hiring 600 in new braunfels fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt ipa brokers sale of multifamily portfolio in san antonio fri oct 4 , 2013 08 : 27 am edt cibolo to consider making a deal with walmart sat sep 7 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt ’ beautification day ’ to feature crime stats , clean up efforts fri jul 19 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt sample 40-plus cultures at the folklife festival sun jun 9 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt ’ beautification day ’ to feature crime stats , clean up efforts fri jul 19 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt fiesta celebration at mission san jos a fitting finale mon apr 29 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt create memories in bastrop sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt take a trip back in time to smithville sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt rodriguez , two other incumbents win re-election to hisd board sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt pasadena , lamar ok bond issues sun aug 18 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt usaa : we ’ ll pay for air force-navy footbal ...
sat oct 5 , 2013 08 : 27 am edt an era ends--the bookmobile is being disco ...
fri oct 4 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt an era ends--san antonio is ending the boo ...
fri oct 4 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt texas ag abbott kicks off gubernatorial run sun jul 14 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt manziel leaves mannings ’ football camp a day early sun jul 14 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt ag abbott set to formally begin gubernatorial run in san antonio today sun jul 14 , 2013 10 : 27 am edt majority of calories to households in tajikistan while cooking oil urban population and is the primary market for importers and for distribution to the entire country .
khujand is a major city in the parts of the fergana valley in uzbekistan .
kurgan-tyube is a major market the south of the country and is a key market for in the abdurahmanov family ’ s flat on the 4th floor of this apartment block in kurgan-tube , simply turning the water tap is a pleasure . out comes clean , drinkable water .
muhammadjon abdurahmanov lives here with his parents , and he likes the change .
“ the problem with the water is over .
now i can wash my hands , take a shower , get on with my life faster , ” he says .
rakhmatullaev said the decision was made at the request of the health minister .
we support the proposal given by christensen that one way to get out of the problem that african countries face is to demand for transparency and cooperation on the issue of tax havens. to us as we know of many vacancies in thailand .
benga and killed a man and two women in cold blood , " pontien barutwanayo , a to the army two months ago two armed men who were hiding on their property .
the isale is part of bujumbura rural province , a stronghold of in a separate incident in gitega province two policemen on " there was an exchange of fire and one of the policemen was was " deeply concerned about signs of a returning climate of impunity , the the evolution of north dakota ’ s fund says as much about the state ’ s nordic heritage as it does its status as the nation ’ s second-ranked oil-producing state .
a third of north dakota ’ s residents are of norwegian descent , the highest percentage of any state , and norway is one of the world ’ s top oil and gas producing countries .
advani crediting me on ordinance is speculation : pranab mukherjee | allegations of muslim appeasement false , says akhilesh | where is corruption , asks delhi cm sheila dikshit | the southern highland side posted their second win of the season after breezing past oljoro jkt at the sheikh amri abeid stadium in arusha last saturday .
the teams ’ point collection kit has been beefed up to hit eleven , just four adrift of league leaders simba .
the pace makers who displayed a lacklustre performance during their last outing against ruvu shooting on saturday , are still at the top of the standings table with 15 points to keep a three-point cushion over second-placed jkt ruvu .
jkt ruvu leapfrogged from the sixth position to the stay at the heels of simba courtesy of a win over kagera sugar at the chamazi stadium in dar es salaam .
the standings are bunched in the top five teams to highlight how competitive is the league so far .
rc to address challenge of efd prices na the guardian reporter the rc made the remarks following mbeya businesscommunity ’ s request to get the efds free of charge , saying the machines are sold at prices beyond their reach .
the efds are sold at 800,000 / - or more and yet some businesspersons in mbeya say their businesses cannot afford to buy the devices . & ldquo ; tra ’ s move is bad .
we could end up shutting down our businesses as we cannot afford to buy the devices , they are too expensive compared to the level of our businesses , & rdquo ; complained one of the businessmen , john mwamenge .
for his part , tra officer in mbeya region , rishedd bade told businesspersons that the authority was speaking to efds dealers to look at the possibility of reducing the prices and at the same time liaise with banks to offer loans to businesspersons to enable them buy the machines. to exporters list ] [ container cost ] [ shipping to usa ] [ shipping personal items ] [ shipping cars ] [ shipping agent ] [ buddha images & food ] [ tariffs ] [ letter of credit ] [ fine arts license ] loading supreme court has a weighty docket in its new term the story of how malala yousafzai went from being a quiet 11-year-old to a spokeswoman for girls ’ education to a victim of the taliban to a nobel prize candidate .
dayton , ohio , and other midwestern cities are trying to restart growth by luring enterprising immigrants , as a way to help stem job losses and a drop in population .
more in automobilesnew car reviewsused car informationcollectible carssell your car find the best job in the new york metro area and beyond .
insider periscope for sept .
30 mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt dominion gardenfest decorations you can make yourself sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt police : man who set himself ablaze on mall dies sat oct 5 , 2013 1 : 28 pm edt many dod civilians to return to work sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 28 pm edt man in hospital after possible party shooting in henrico sun oct 6 , 2013 3 : 28 pm edt two early morning robberies near vcu sun oct 6 , 2013 1 : 28 pm edt ken cuccinelli and ted cruz attend family foundation gala in richmond sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt murder case investigator married key witness : ’ baby joey ’ s ’ grandma sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 12 am edt is state retaliating against murray center lawyer ?
sun oct 6 , 2013 08 : 12 am edt ’ baby joey ’ s ’ grandma married lead investigator on murder case sun oct 6 , 2013 08 : 12 am edt man arrested on gun charges mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 12 am edt sheriffs office warns residents of scams mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 12 am edt vulture fest returns to makanda mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 12 am edt vet med open house sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt apprehension in champaign ends inmate ’ s freedom sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 12 am edt supercomputer to be open for tours on petascale day sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 12 am edt no foul play in death of man at walmart wed jul 24 , 2013 2 : 12 pm edt daughter , dad admit roles in grisly sw side killing , dismemberment mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 12 am edt starting monday , cta riders cant buy magnetic-striped cards at l stations mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt potbelly chairman credits fantastic staffers for ipo success mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt shoppers find nearly empty shelves at fox & obel on grocer ’ s last day mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 12 am edt quinn ’ s progress lags on state contracts for veteran-owned businesses sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt shoppers empty shelves at fox & obel on grocer ’ s last day sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt belvita breakfast radio sweepstakes mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 12 am edt law enforcement boosts safety measures for marathon sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt who is the saints ’ biggest offensive threat ?
sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 12 pm edt community bids a farewell to betty gaumer sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt two men try to get away with robbing a taylorville store sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt homecoming fit for a king sat oct 5 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt cancer answers at carle hospital sat oct 5 , 2013 8 : 12 pm edt joliet man dies in fall from bicycle mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt pulse : madigan all business in joliet mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt state considering new use for iyc-joliet sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt bolingbrook shootings lead to wild car chase sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 12 pm edt village board may overturn mortons 2009 ban on video gambling monday mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt peoria man arrested in burglary investigation mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 12 am edt battling the elements didn ’ t faze the life chain sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 12 pm edt accident leaves two quincy motorcyclists in hospital sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 12 pm edt iowa motorists less likely to hit deer sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 12 am edt rain didn ’ t dampen the spirits of mutt strut sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 12 am edt medtronic 's busy day at the us supreme courtmedcity news - by lindsey alexandersupreme court turns down medtronic appealminneapolis star tribunesee all 10 sourcesrelated medtronic ¿ usas un dispositivo móvil ?
dirígete a m.aol.com / para recibir las noticias de el huffpost para móviles ..
educación se carga en los presupuestos las becas para material y libros ...
pasarán a ser competencia autonómica y solo las mantiene en ceuta y melilla ...
continuamos con el cierre parcial de la administración en eeuu .
conforme pasan los días hay más incertidumbre sobre lo que va a pasar y mayor temor a que el conflicto entre republicanos y demócratas lleve a la suspensión de pagos del país si el congreso no aprueba el aumento del techo de endeudamiento .
los bonos del tesoro ya empiezan a resentir los efectos del conflicto , y el jueves pasado el índice 500 de standard & poor tuvo su peor día en más de un mes .
y arranca con fuerza .
con películas de todo color y pelaje .
películas premiadas en nuestro más importante festival , el de san sebastián , ese festival internacional que acontece en españa donde los españoles nos acostumbramos a llevarnos los premios de consuelo .
es cierto que el futuro está caro .
cubierto por una gruesa niebla ( londinense ) de incertidumbres .
pero , desde hace decenios , los españoles sin más patrimonio que las ganas de trabajar y algunos certificados educativos tenemos la seguridad de que no hay futuro sin inglés .
ser actor , en españa , comportaba el estigma de ser un poco menospreciado , social o moralmente , incluso en el caso de grandes y admiradas figuras .
bastaba rascar un poquito y salía de nuevo la famosa sentencia .
era una profesión bastarda que no terminaba de lograr el reconocimiento .
el producto , el mercado , el proveedor , la importancia del género son la nueva modernidad .
no queda otra .
superada la avalancha de maltodextrinas y metilcelulosas , liofilizados y sifones galácticos , ¿ qué nos queda sino el producto ?
¿ dónde quedaría sin él el desarrollo de la labor del cocinero ?
el carácter de muchas fundaciones las hace especialmente idóneas para innovar y situarse en el vértice del liderazgo social .
al ocupar un espacio intermedio entre el mercado y el estado , están en disposición de reunir las mejores cualidades de ambos mundos y proyectar --en un " sentido de vuelta " -- sus buenas prácticas sobre ellos rusia defiende con represión su interés de explotar el petróleo del ártico .
hay mucho dinero en juego y el gobierno no quiere que nadie interfiera .
¿ quién se atreverá a mover un dedo contra las poderosas petroleras tras ver la cara de estupor de los jóvenes activistas de greenpeace tras las rejas ?
filólogo y periodista-responsable de comunicación , marca y medios sociales , fundéu bbva con este proceso el gobierno en sí no cierra , es decir , obama y su equipo siguen gobernando y por ello resulta impropio hablar de cierre del gobierno .
dado que el proceso afecta a los órganos de la administración , recomendamos la expresión cierre de la administración federal .
con un pueblo con formación elemental de geografía , es muy posible que la crisis inmobiliaria de 2008 , que la proliferación del despilfarro en infraestructuras inutiles o que la contaminación en nuestras ciudades fuese diferente .
sirva esto para hacernos reflexionar .
capitán de navío de la armada en situación de retiro ciudadanos españoles , no nos confiemos , la amenaza no se ha ido .
depende de los intereses geoestratégicos de eeuu , de las ganas de obtener gloria imperecedera de su presidente , de los planes de dominio de israel en oriente medio , y del seguimiento culpable de los incapaces políticos españoles .
conducir es desarrollar una actividad de desplazamiento , en un entorno social .
una actividad en la que intervienen aspectos emocionales , culturales , éticos y morales , entre otros .
y en conducir ( no en manejar ) no creo que nadie sea capaz de afirmar que un sexo sea superior a otro .
patxi lópez responde a ' la razón ' : " la derecha se está poniendo nerviosa " efe será operada este martes para quitarle un hematoma en la cabezaafp el psoe , a sánchez camacho : " bienvenida y suerte con rajoy " efe la mitad de los españoles cree que la economía está peor que hace un añophotos.com corea del norte amenaza con " despiadados ataques " al sur y eeuuafp la marea verde balear vuelve al cole rebelándose contra el trilingüismoefe zoido se descarta para ser el candidato del pp en andalucíaefe griñán cederá el testigo a díaz también en el partidoefe adivina cuántas empresas españolas hay entre las 100 más innovadorasphotos estalla un artefacto en el ayuntamiento del alcalde " franquista " de beadeefe los expertos internacionales comienzan a destruir el arsenal químico de siria ¿ por qué los iraníes muestran sus vaqueros a netanyahu ?
( fotos ) twitter una exhibición de ' monster trucks ' deja ocho muertos en méxico ( vídeo ) reuters la cara que pone este gato puede ser lo mejor que veas hoy ( vídeo ) youtube esto es lo que pasa si corriges la ortografía de un académico ( tuits ) popular los primeros intentos de un león blanco aprendiendo a rugir ( vídeo ) marko djurica / reutersa se fotografía cada mes de su embarazo en la misma posición ( fotos ) sophie starzenskipopular los ocho mejores lugares para disfrutar del otoño ( fotos ) cristina del castillo / minube madonna cuenta que fue violada tras mudarse a nueva yorkterry richardson for harpers bazaar companies eyeing piecemeal acquisition of blackberry assets mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 07 am edt wiggles & wags pet resort in tempe expanding mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt mesa mayor mum on governor run mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt why picking dental coverage isn ’ t so easy on the new health exchange fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt pcso : man kills mother claiming god told him to do it sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt phoenix homeowner finds , shoots burglar sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt az bicyclist dead after riding in front of suv sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt ny art dealer gives auctioned masks to az tribe sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt photos from the phoenix zoo fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt scottsdale cold cases fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt semifinalists named for nat ’ l merit scholarship grants fri oct 4 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt tempe town lake to get new steel dam fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt tempe union override vote to be discussed thu oct 3 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt ’ barktoberfest ’ returning to gilbert for 14th year fri oct 4 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt make a difference day is seeking volunteers thu oct 3 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt valley woman with ms inspires family to fundraise thu oct 3 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt out of work because of shutdown , workers protest at luke afb thu oct 3 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt peoria council approves tohono o ’ odham grants wed oct 2 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt dna helps id man suspected of firing at phoenix officer wed oct 17 , 2012 10 : 07 pm edt out of work because of shutdown , workers protest at luke afb thu oct 3 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt peoria swears in first youth council liaison wed oct 2 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt 10 / 4 : broadway under the stars fundraiser in peoria wed oct 2 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt peoria expected to approve tohono o ’ odham grants tue oct 1 , 2013 10 : 07 pm edt pinal sheriff : man kills mother , said god told him to sat oct 5 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt flames erupt at house under renovation in scottsdale thu oct 3 , 2013 12 : 07 pm edt revitalizing mcdowell focus of scottsdale council ’ s next study session wed oct 2 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt scottsdale police arrest 2 in home burglary wed oct 2 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt sheraton hotel in scottsdale robbed by gunman wed oct 2 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt mesa ’ a sonoran desert chorale brings a new world of music wed oct 2 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt tempe shalimar country club has new look , inside and out fri oct 4 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt tempe town lake to get new steel dam fri oct 4 , 2013 12 : 07 pm edt asu to demolish upper-deck seating in north end zone at sun devil stadium in january thu oct 3 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt tempe union override vote to be discussed thu oct 3 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt but the man wouldn 't take the ticket and made kephart sign it so she would be the only one able to collect the prize .
" the reaction was crazy , " kephart said .
" everyone was so amped up . "
kephart said she gave the man a percentage of her winnings .
" i just couldn 't not give him some of it , " she said .
" i never realized how expensive couches were , " she said .
" instead of waiting till christmas or later , now i can buy something i really need . "
good for her , and good for the customer too ! !
a selfless act , and a boon to a hardworking individual ! !
it 's wise to take care of your bartender ... and wise of her to give him a percentage of the loot !
since she received the money , she will pay the taxes and the guy she gave money to won 't have to .
doesn 't the lottery withhold the tax before thy disburse the winnings ?
i was a generous tipper when i traveled , knowing to a wait person , the lone diner was a pita .
but i can 't say it ever occurred to me to include a lottery ticket in my tip .
don 't miss our round-up of the top five things to do in kent roll up , roll up for one of the most unusual circus spectacles there 's also all our regular features such as fun club and the it is all change at margate ’ s turner contemporary this week , as the new autumn exhibitions go on show young and old can enjoy a romantic weekend of medieval magic at bodiam castle visit our events , fetes and fairs section to see which event is closest to you .
don 't miss out on all the bargains !
that ’ s good news for californians and for the obama administration .
how much can consumers expect to pay for individual coverage ?
in 1914 sir ernest shackleton and a crew of 27 set sail for the last unclaimed prize in the history of exploration : the first crossing on foot of the antarctic continent .
tiberius puiu is a journalist and a translator , a member of the romanian society of balkan and slavic studies and of the association of scandinavian and baltic studies .
he published a book on “ ukraine and the ukrainians , ” which gives an objective account of the history of ukraine and tackles the issue of the holodomor , the great famine of 1933 .
he was awarded an honorary diploma by the ukrainian ...
deputy constantin niţă , do you think re-establishing a ministry for smes would be a useful idea ?
calls for roman remains discovered at moat lane in towcester to be a visitor attraction fight is on over efforts to tighten voting rules ; critics see it as a violation of voting rights act " there are not votes in the house to pass a clean cr , " boehner said in an interview with abc 's " this week . "
" we are not going to pass a clean debt limit [ bill ] , " boehner said .
" the votes are not in the house ..
we are not going down that path . "
boehner added that he had no indication of when the standoff would end. end last week ?
what scares me is that i really am not sure how far the tp and boehner are willing to take the republicans : the american people hate the aca so we must stop it .
well why not let it law start and prove that it is a failure and then step in and rework it or appeal the law .
because then he has to explain to the american people why he didn 't do that at the start to avoid the whole shutdown .
and then he has to go the tea party and explain that after shutting down the government , they got nothing !
i don 't have the ability to control 1 / 3 of the house who just so happen to be repubs .
let 's face it , the repubs are scared the tp will break off and the dems will control the house .
program aims to bring youth to ranches sat oct 5 , 2013 07 : 08 am edt helen klanderud dead at 76 fri oct 4 , 2013 07 : 08 am edt alleged gun buyer in clements case due in court tue apr 30 , 2013 11 : 08 am edt springs boy found unconscious in hot tub mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 08 am edt crash shuts down nb i-25 sun oct 6 , 2013 1 : 08 pm edt thousands celebrate oktoberfest sat oct 5 , 2013 9 : 08 pm edt car breaks out in flames mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 08 am edt pedestrian hit by car near western implement mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 08 am edt not guilty plea in longmont kidnapping case sun oct 6 , 2013 3 : 08 pm edt blm planning post-fire reseedings mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 08 am edt vails ellefson has his sights set on sochi sun oct 6 , 2013 3 : 08 pm edt crowdfunding startup investment - democratization writ large or dangerous hysteria ?
telecom italia may be cut to junk by s & # 38 ; p after bernabe quits the senate conservatives fund , led by mr. demint when he was in the senate , put up a web site in july called dontfundobamacare.com and ran television ads featuring mr. cruz and mr. lee urging people to tell their representatives not to fund the law .
600 bikers rally for camp sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt it ’ s a last for first responders in brevard mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt dogs can hit the waves , find new homes mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt exodus of cubans fuels a clash of new and old mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt jailbreak brevard adventure race sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt ocala woman arrested in armed robbery of gainesville checker ’ s mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt one suspect held in armed robbery of checkers sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt sharpes ferry bridge fix on track to be finished by jan .
1 sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt another tax referendum for schools ?
sun oct 6 , 2013 08 : 10 am edt raffle for fired deland officer held in private mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt yale searches for stinker adding feces to dryers sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt rallies held in teen ’ s honor sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt two men found dead in car sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 10 am edt palm bay woman dies in rollover crash sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt lady lake company ’ s conversion to propane raises neighbors ’ concerns mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt two men shot and killed in plaza in orlando sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt fla .
gop meets in orlando to prepare for 2014 sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt getting up to speed on linkedin : the entire series mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt companies lining up to buy blackberry in bits and pieces mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt humana to market obamacare coverage in cvs pharmacies mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt google glass doesnt want you to eat that doughnut mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt reality tv ’ s ’ hotel impossible ’ show makes over sevilla inn in kissimmee sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt grandma can pay $ 20k for tuition sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt 10 / 07 : new businesses sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt on-demand flexbus shuttle won ’ t be ready in time for sunrail thu sep 26 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt chaplain arrested for impersonating law enforcement tue oct 1 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt 500,000 gallons of raw sewage spills in seminole after pipe cracked sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt georgia aquarium heads to court to get wild-caught beluga whales sought by seaworld mon sep 30 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt over half of uruguayans are not interested in politics : poll a hard-driving ghanaian businessman who ’ s somewhat of a jack-of-all-trades , william ato essien , was in london last week for the mining on top africa seminar to lay out his new venture , ( ... )
tullow oil is expected in august to name a ghanaian to run its local subsidiary ( ... )
iran : hassan rohani appelle au dialogue avec les occidentaux le nouveau président élu en juin dernier , et qui prêtait serment ce dimanche après-midi 4 août , a déclaré que la seule façon de communiquer avec son pays était le dialogue et non les sanctions .
il faisait référence aux sanctions économiques infligées à l 'iran depuis que la république a lancé son programme nucléaire controversé .
un message bien accueilli par les etats-unis , un des il y a eu comme un regain de chaleur entre les deux etats .
washington ne pouvait évidemment pas envoyer de représentant étant donné l 'absence de mais pour la maison blanche , & bdquo ; l 'investiture de rohani représente une chance pour l 'iran d 'agir rapidement pour calmer les inquiétudes sur son programme nucléaire « .
washington assure aussi qu 'il serait un partenaire de bonne volonté si le nouveau gouvernement choisissait de répondre à ses obligations internationales .
autrement dit , si l 'iran se montrait plus transparent sur le dans son discours devant les députés , hassan rohani a appelé au dialogue & bdquo ; sur un pied d 'égalité « et dans & bdquo ; le respect mutuel pour faire baisser les hostilités « .
et cela après huit ans de tension avec ahmadinejad . & bdquo ; on ne peut pas contraindre le peuple iranien à abdiquer par des sanctions et des menaces de guerre , a déclaré le président iranien .
un peuple qui , par sa solidarité nationale .
la seule solution pour entretenir des relations avec bilatérale et l ’ abandon des hostilités .
je le dis clairement : si vous voulez une réponse appropriée , n 'utilisez pas le langage des sanctions , mais plutôt un signe qui ne trompe pas : au poste clé de ministre des affaires étrangères , rohani a nommé mohamed javad zarif , ancien diplomate à l 'onu , bien connu des le nouveau président a dit le caractère futile des sanctions sans précédent qui étranglent l 'économie du pays .
le président iranien a ajouté que l ’ iran n ’ a jamais cherché la guerre avec le monde , une manière de rassurer israël qui accuse téhéran de chercher à fabriquer l ’ arme atomique pour l ’ attaquer .
enfin , il a voulu rassurer les pays arabes du golfe persique en affirmant que l ’ iran ne cherchait pas à changer le régime politique et les frontières des pays la présidence américaine a félicité le peuple iranien & bdquo ; pour avoir fait entendre sa voix « et a souligné enfin que & bdquo ; rohani avait bien compris son climate change may be to blame for disappearance of antarctic silverfish once upon a time , as the story goes , antarctic silverfish swam by the thousands in places like arthur harbor at the northern end of the peninsula .
like other parts of the polar food web ãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ € â  such as adélie penguins and shrimp-like krill ãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ € â  the silverfish rely on sea ice for parts of their lifecycle .
for example , the sea ice offers cover when the eggs hatch in november , torres noted .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œit tells me that the population isnãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ â € žâ ¢ t getting any new recruits , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  he said .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œwhat weãƒâ ¢ € ã ¢ â € žâ ¢ re looking at is a population that is not a healthy one.ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  the researchers are keenly interested in figuring out where the charcot and avian silverfish populations come from .
that job largely falls to julian ashford , a professor of oceanography at old dominion university .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œit may be that similar events are driving the pleuragramma , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  ashford noted .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œwhen this fish is missing from the smorgasbord for penguins and other seabirds , [ the predators ] tend to decline in numbers , ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  he said .
ãƒâ ¢ € ã … â € œthe silverfish is the only antarctic coastal pelagic fish that is accessible to all predators .
it is extremely important.ãƒâ ¢ € ã ‚ â  jk orders rubada to give 32,000 ha to investors na the guardian reporter two bahamians rescued by us coast guard after drifting for eight days at sea at a press conference announcing the release of the report at un headquarters in 1999 , two members of the commission , christian tomuschat of germany and otilia lux de cotí of guatemala , described the & ldquo ; atrocious nature & rdquo ; of some of the massacres committed by government forces against ethnic enclaves during the conflict .
at the same time , he underscored the importance of bringing the case to a conclusion and determining accountability in view of guatemala ’ s future .
on this basis , the two fundamental elements of the crime are : intentionality and that the acts committed include at least one of the five previously cited in the [ list ] above . & rdquo ; you can find the entire text of the report in english here or in spanish here .
by thomas g. donlanis it time to sell america short ?
by jonathan buckthe longer the impasse in congress goes on , the more opportunities there may be to buy government-spending-sensitive european stocks on the dips .
lenovo came out of nowhere to become the global leader in pcs .
now it 's got its sights set on samsung and apple in smartphones and tablets .
african union peacekeepers in somalia patrol in a tank as control only parts of mogadishu .
the spokesperson for the ugandan people ’ s the addition of the 4,000 amisom troops meets a december request by the un security council to bring the force to 12,000 soldiers .
a far short of the 20,000 the african union estimated to be necessary at the start yoweri museveni to provide the remaining troops if supported by the available , then uganda is ready to do so because we have the will and the particularly ghana and nigeria , to commit to earlier pledges of troops for the to create an islamic state on the horn of africa .
fbi and atf have announced a reward of up to $ 25,000 for information leading to an arrest.read more .. 2 comments the university of central arkansas bears piled up the yards saturday but the mcneese state cowboys piled up the points and became the first team to win on the purple and gray stripes at estes stadium .
agenda cultural de caracas del martes 8 de octubreeste martes , 8 de octubre , se dictará en los espacios del centro cultural pdvsa la estancia , un taller de percusión cubana en la que jóvenes podrán aprender a tocar el ... eje del vivir bien cumple dos años en rescate de la nocturnidad caraqueñaubicado entre la plaza de los museos y la universidad nacional experimental de las artes , el eje , cuya extensión es de 2.000 metros cuadrados , se impone como un lugar de ... monólogo inolvidable de carlos márquez se presenta hoy en uneartea las 6 : 00 de la tarde de este domingo , en la sala de conciertos de dicha casa de estudios , se presentará al público la obra , cuyo guión , escrito por josé gabriel núñez ...
eje del vivir bien cumple dos años en rescate de la nocturnidad caraqueña monólogo inolvidable de carlos márquez se presenta hoy en unearte consulta pública del proyecto de reforma a ley de fomento artesanal comenzará el 11 de octubre miles de firmas respaldan la discusión en la que se debatirán tópicos como la economía artesanal , la seguridad social , y el trabajo de los artesanos y artesanas pianista coreana ah ruem ahn deleitará a los caraqueños con la orquesta sinfónica esta es la primera vez que ruem ahn visita venezuela y sobre sus manos recae la responsabilidad de darle el toque " mágico " a la ejecución de una de las obras más emblemáticas de robert schumann : concierto para piano en la menor , op. 54 entre gradillas y sociedad se exhibieron fotos del comandante chávez un chávez presidente , hermano , padre , cómplice , hijo y oráculo , fue mostrado a lo largo del bulevar ubicado entre las esquinas granadillas y sociedad , en una exposición que intervino la cotidianidad de quienes transitan el concurrido lugar del centro histórico caraqueño 28 premios internacionales ha recibido el cine venezolano en 2013 un total de 28 premios y menciones especiales ha recibido durante este año el cine venezolano en 121 concursos internacionales en los que ha participado , reseñó una nota de prensa del ministerio del poder popular para la cultura serenata guayanesa y los sabandeños ofrecerán concierto en caracas próximo miércoles métodos del dramaturgo rodolfo santana serán debatidos en ciclo de conversatorios niños y jóvenes recuerdan al comandante chávez con obra de teatro en el balcón del pueblo este jueves comienza vi festival de cine latinoamericano y caribeño margarita 2013 of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs monday oct 7 , 2013 waziri membe akutana kwa mazungumzo na waziri wa mambo ya nje wa kosovo “ if i was sitting in a commissioner ’ s position , ” he says , “ i wouldn ’ t have done anything to get federal money if it wasn ’ t the right thing for my state . ”
while it ’ s unclear whether ritz ’ s stance on the standards actually swayed the election , bennett saw it as a ploy to attract the support of tea party republicans who have been skeptical of the standards .
but david coleman , president of the college board and one of the creators of the english standards , emphasizes that it doesn ’ t have to be that way .
site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeothailand visa newsletters & helpline visas : all borders are open .
don 't be fooled if you use a lawyer to procure your double or the privilege or should we say con ?
some lawyers ? are actually notaries & a few are ex clerks gone out on their own ? ? ?
typical price is 12,000 baht. in thailand you will be asked to repatriate that person back to the country of origin is close by if you are inspected as by law , the original is supposed to be displayed if the thai wife / husband decides to go on the dole or other welfare programs--- the us will pre-nup won 't save you so before you fall in love think of the futureyou could be costs are from the managers .
get it in writing .
if very few condos have been guards and a receptionist and office someone has to pay for all this , plus how they are paid .
if the project has different size condos in the same to work for you that you also require an additional 4 thais on your the labour office inspects you then you have your own files .
if you let your lawyer do then he / she may ask for a backhand to the amount of israelis in khao san rd & arabian minorities in sukhumvit ? we receive these guidelines we will send out to our readers .
to depts are lax but chiangmai is not .
plead ignorant if you haven 't been but if not you are liable for a 5000 baht fine or 200 baht for each as you will not be on their records .
this applies in rules for all to see on your work premises .
duration you to be in a better position should you find out your lawyer is overcharging you or you wish to change from your present law and vat certificate in a prominant place in your office .
as said before if you use a photcopy of your vat cert on the wall have case is different and what may work for one person may not the fiancee agreement ; if the marriage doesn 't take place you may not be person likes the usa before you take the plunge as laws in the us --- once married you are liable if she / he leaves the marriage for the rest of your life---- & a pre nuptial ---forget you buy and or sell use the services of a or open a bank account you must be the holder of a if you dress like a hippy & go to immigration be exhibit brings old ways to new generations sat oct 5 , 2013 1 : 06 pm edt scholarships awarded by calista foundation sat oct 5 , 2013 1 : 06 pm edt fire in the sky signals first weekend of fur rendezvous sun feb 24 , 2013 05 : 06 am est fur rondy has a new queen fri jan 18 , 2013 07 : 06 am est rondy has a new queen fri jan 18 , 2013 05 : 06 am est begich : government shutdown ’ totally unnecessary ’ thu oct 3 , 2013 1 : 06 pm edt murkowski : defunding law won ’ t get rid of it thu sep 26 , 2013 1 : 06 pm edt alaskans could see high premiums on exchange thu sep 26 , 2013 1 : 06 pm edt time set aside for possible redistricting hearing thu sep 26 , 2013 1 : 06 pm edt pet of the week : bonny sun oct 6 , 2013 3 : 06 pm edt shutdown takes a toll as lawmakers search for answers fri oct 4 , 2013 1 : 06 pm edt goldstream man documents weather , other collected data on wesbite mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 06 am edt dauenhauer to speak at elders and youth mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 06 am edt denali commission to host juneau listening session sat apr 2 , 2011 12 : 00 pm edt jpd arrests juneau man after accident mon mar 28 , 2011 01 : 06 am edt committee bill limits scope of alaska oil tax cut tue mar 29 , 2011 03 : 06 am edt rep : no ethical conflict in firefighter bill tue mar 29 , 2011 03 : 06 am edt of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqseveniment | cadran politic românia a semnat , pe 13 aprilie , memorandumul agri de furnizare de gaz lichefiat din azerbaidjan via georgia .
gazul va fi furnizat pe ruta baku ( azerbaidjan ) -kulevi ( georgia ) -constanza ( romania ) .
gazele din azerbaijan vor fi lichefiate in kulevi şi apoi transportate prin marea neagră pe vapor până la constanţa unde va avea loc un proces de de-lichefiere / re-gazeifiere .
într-o primă fază , ar ...
în ultimii ani , ankara a lansat mai multe iniţiative menite să stabilizeze orientul mijlociu , prin facilitarea eforturilor de reducere a conflictelor şi angajarea în platforme regionale multilaterale .
ultimul raport al international crisis group lansat în data de 7 aprilie , evaluează angajamentul regional în creştere al turciei , în cadrul mai larg al politicii sale externe şi de comerţ ....
vladimir putin în venezuela : acorduri în industria nucleară şi spaţială extinderea puterii globale a rusiei a continuat în venezuela cu acorduri pe termen lung de extracţie a petrolului din bazinul orinoco şi cu extinderea influenţei ruse în america de sud .
premierul rus vladimir a vizitat venezuela la începutul lunii aprilie .
putin a sosit alături de ultimele patru elicoptere de transport militare mi 17 cumpărate anterior ( 2006 ) de caracas .
în timpul întrevederilor ...
merkel în turcia : integrare versus influenţă ue în orientul mijlociu cancelarul german , angela merkel a efectuat o vizită oficială în turcia în perioada 29 – 30 martie .
vizita s-a concentrat asupra istanbulului – care în 2010 este capitală culturală europeană & # 8211 ; şi asupra integrării cetăţenilor turci , prezenţi în număr mare în germania .
cancelarul german a discutat cu omologul său turc , recep tayyip erdogan , despre integrarea europeană , despre ...
atentatele cu bombă de la moscova , din 28 martie , au readus terorismul în sânul federaţiei ruse atentatele cu bombă de la moscova , din 28 martie , au readus terorismul în sânul federaţiei ruse , în condiţiile în care războiul din nordul caucazului era declarat încheiat iar strategia de securitate , doctrina militară şi strategia de politică externă marcau drept principală ameninţare extinderea nato .
atacurile subliniază din nou instabilitatea caucazului de nord , lipsa de instrumente ...
acordul istoric pentru sprijinul greciei trece prin acceptarea fmi ca deţinător a o treime din riscuri , în timp ce germania a încercat lămurirea turciei să accepte faza intermediară de partener ce mai mult lumea liberă . © 2010 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress jump to content yemassee , hardeeville festivals to celebrate two lowcountry staples sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 25 am edt karen dissipates in gulf of mexico sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 25 am edt paul finebaum : how alabama wooed spurrier sat oct 5 , 2013 7 : 25 pm edt vendors prepping for opening day of sc state fair sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 25 pm edt spurrier on clowney situation : ’ it ’ s not a big story ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 3 : 25 pm edt ’ welcome to myrtle manor ’ star arrested again sun oct 6 , 2013 1 : 25 pm edt karen weakens to depression off la. coast sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 25 am edt tropical storm weakens mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 25 am edt divers recover body in hartwell sun oct 6 , 2013 5 : 25 pm edt the capital bujumbura for suspected links to an islamist extremist group , he " on sunday i was walking around the city , i saw the magnificent bujumbura cathedral , i took pictures of it and a policeman arrived , " this man is suspected of having links to terrorism , as we would reinforce the au peacekeeping mission in somalia to counter the shebaab hhgregg has new leg in diversification strategy : home furnishings sat oct 5 , 2013 03 : 12 am edt teen escapes submerging car sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 12 pm edt man dies in speedway shooting sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 12 pm edt tanzania wants to renegotiate some sections of the deal it inked with its ugandan neighbour in september 2011 for the construction of a hydro-electric dam . ( ... )
the french major is expected by the end of the year to submit papers to uganda ’ s government to indicate where it plans to drill . ( ... )
president yoweri museveni convened a meeting of updf high command in late may to deal out new cards among the ugandan army . ( ... )
the inauguration of the china-africa friendship association uganda in kampala at ( ... )
in may , often called mary ’ s month in popular devotion , many parishes and catholic schools participate in the crowning of mary .
the crowning of mary is an annual tradition at holy rosary school in duluth and is celebrated in the cathedral of our lady on may 1 .
this year ’ s crowning was part of the regular 9 a.m.
wednesday school mass .
after the crowning of the statue , it was returned to the holy rosary school in a procession by all of the students of the school .
st. john ’ s school in duluth celebrated the may crowning at the children ’ s mass on may 8 .
eighth-graders elle christian , sam wehr and flannery glisczinski of holy rosary school in duluth placed third and are the alternates for the national competition in washington , d.c. , after competing may 4 at the state competition for national history day at the university of minnesota .
she had interviewed and worked with wasp liz strohfus to create her project and received an honorable mention for her performance .
kazuhiro kawamura , who headed the clinical aspects of the study , holds the infant who was born as a result of the treatment .
service for coburn salutes life of a public servant mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 20 am edt vendors being solicited for second annual octoberfest fri oct 4 , 2013 5 : 20 pm edt small business workshop set in rommey fri oct 4 , 2013 5 : 20 pm edt westernport senior center to hold flu clinic fri oct 4 , 2013 5 : 20 pm edt marietta in bloom program launched mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt woman to fight wrongful arrest mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt libyans bristle at u.s. ’ kidnap ’ mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 20 am edt kids fish , play games at spina bifida family fun day sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 07 am edt & sbquo ; the issue of access and entitlement to arable land on repatriation , resettlement and reinsertion of idps and refugees in the ministry the commission , said his team faced the difficult task of reconciling the law & sbquo ; we have , on the one hand , the law protecting the occupant " on the other , we have a returnee who could not come to " some houses were sold by the government , how you can tell cassava field on the border of ntahangwa river in bujumbura .
a group of returnees aboard a unhcr lorry .
according to a " i was told it was government property ; there is no way to get the field back , " he said .
" another plot i owned is now occupied by priests. but i am sure there are traces at the land registry agency , but i know there is " i have been in the country for two years now but i have no right to my properties , yet when i was repatriated , i was told i would live in mugabonihera had counted on a compound he had in nyakabiga suburb in bujumbura but the occupants refused to leave , saying it was theirs as reintegration kit ; it might be cash to start a project , and it might be a mill , a welding machine depending on the beneficiaries ’ potential , " sindibutume said. returnees born in exile - are " culturally and linguistically alienated and this “ in the beginning we were very nervous , but never a doctor has been so clear to us and never a doctor took so much time to explain everything and to search for the most suitable treatment ” & # 8220 ; to be honest , at the beginning of the first visit , i felt a bit uncomfortable , since we had to talk about the psychological , financial and medical aspects of the treatment .
we also had to fill a lot of paperwork & # 8221 ; an official of the dar es salaam based comprehensive community based rehabilitation in tanzania ( ccbrt ) was left perplexed one day as he entered a shop at karikaooo , dar es salaam .
from nowhere a woman gave her him a 200 / - coin apparently as alms to a ’ poor person . ’
he humbly took the money and went on with shopping .
in the presence of the woman who gave him the 200 / - coin , he took 400,000 / - cash from his pocket and bought a music system to the surprise of the woman .
it was not his first time to encounter such mishaps .
he one day went for an interview in an office in dar es salaam .
he was repulsed at the reception by being told that he came the wrong day because it was not the day to give alms to beggars .
it was not until he told her that he was called for an interview , that the receptionist allowed her in with apology .
his disability is actually the effect of polio at the age of five .
although his parents tried to find treatment for him in various hospitals , it all was in vein .
so they decided to accept the reality .
just recently , ccbrt conducted a one day journalists disability awareness training in dar es salaam where a lot of issues regarding the rights of pwds were discussed and in the end the journalists were asked not only to be sensitive when reporting about pwds but raise awareness to the society that pwds are like other people , they are the part of the society and should be given equal opportunities in all spheres of life .
27.nandita das to be a part of a spanish film how bright is your holiday spirit ?
fri nov 30 , 2012 5 : 06 pm est soldiers , family and friends gather for dedication at jber sat nov 17 , 2012 05 : 06 am est balash named acting dnr commissioner wed sep 25 , 2013 5 : 06 pm edt home | about | search | site map | blog | discussbangkok platinum fashion mall petchaburi rd apartments ] [ bangkok restaurants ] [ bangkok ] [ gay ] [ bangkok shopping ] we apply the same " prove it to me ” logic to all the outerwear we carry .
we won ’ t just sell what sells , we trust and believe in the products we carry .
“ while washington waffles on immigration , california ’ s forging ahead , ” brown said in a statement .
“ i ’ m not waiting . ”
click on any of the names below for a full information antarctica has the cleanest air in the world allowing air quality monitoring with a reliable baseline .
sealing youth offender records brings ‘ chance at a new life ’ special interview in princeton , nj by weng tai-sheng , wei pi-chou , and tseng hui-yen for world journal tiphares vs elysium -- welcome to the age of appropriation bay area man on a mission to supply north korea with wheelchairs obama to public : don ’ t give up on health sign-ups sat oct 5 , 2013 2 : 06 pm edt man sets himself on fire on the national mall in washington fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 06 pm edt get ready for autumn ! !
mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 06 am edt getting chilly overnight sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 06 pm edt enterprise set to end drop-off recycling program thu oct 3 , 2013 10 : 06 pm edt huntsville man charged with robbing home at knifepoint mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 06 am edt bayfest rides out the storm , then closes in the rain mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 06 am edt 21.rmf : t & # 233 ; cnicas de vendas s & # 227 ; o tema de congresso para empreendedores 33.ebba chooses sig combibloc cartons for dafruta and maguary brands journalists who criticized him are in prison ; some of his earlier would-be kagame in september 1994 , just two months after the tutsi forces of the rwandan patriotic front ( rpf ) had defeated the hutu genocidaires and captured the invited to join u.s. undersecretary of state tim wirth and u.s. ambassador to rpf .
on the drive to his headquarters in downtown kigali from the airport , half the room was kagame himself , a man with a sorcerer 's air about him , dressed in a of kagame undoubtedly had been shaped by my earlier interviews with some of the 100,000 rwandan hutu refugees who had arrived in burundi over the previous two revenge .
and the united states and the u.n. preferred to believe that the tutsi the rwandan border .
at night , we heard gunfire from rwanda .
in the morning , we reported that the rpf had surrounded their encampment and slaughtered flown by helicopter to the site , the u.s. military attaché on board refused to unwillingness of the american military to allow any re-examination of the actions of kagame 's rpf was regrettably characteristic of u.s. policy then and now .
kagame has enjoyed a long relationship with the pentagon : he was trained at ugandan president yoweri museveni , a u.s. ally .
the pentagon has praised kagame the end of the genocide , the united states and the u.n. suppressed a report decade and a half , kagame has masterfully exploited the benefit of the doubt he years in rwanda and burundi to share his opinion of the president , he replied , " paul kagame is one of the greatest murderers on the continent of africa .
there for the seeming economic dynamism under kagame 's government to continue .
but we by bill alpert and saranya kapura tough investment banker has met his match breeding hungarian hogs .
the writer is a professor of law at northwestern university and the author of “ the tough luck constitution and the assault on health care reform . ”
burundi : non louées , les belles maisons appauvrissent les riches ceux qui se sont endettés pour construire de belles maisons pour les expatriés , dont la moitié sont partis ces derniers cinq ans , ne trouvent plus de locataires .
ils sont contraints de vendre ou de reconstruire dans les quartiers moins chers où logent la majorité de leurs compatriotes .
un investissement plus " immeuble à louer " , lit-on sur la plupart des grands bâtiments , souvent à étages , équipés et avec piscine des quartiers nantis de bujumbura .
il s ’ agit notamment de kiriri qui offre une vue panoramique sur toute la ville et sur le lac tanganyika et de rohero connu depuis longtemps comme l ’ un des quartiers des plus sécurisés de la capitale burundaise .
depuis près de deux ans , la plupart de ces maisons ne trouvent pas de locataires .
elles avaient été construites lors du retour à la paix et les élections générales de 2005 .
la plupart étaient louées à bien payés , ceux-ci qui travaillaient dans des ong internationales ou dans le système des nations-unies pouvaient s 'installer dans une maison d ’ habitation à plus de 500 & dollar ; par mois .
mais plus de la moitié de ces expatriés , venus surtout dans le cadre de la démocratisation ( depuis 2004 et 2005 ) et de la consolidation de la paix , sont partis ces cinq dernières années .
même le bureau de l 'onu les habitations des quartiers chics ont , depuis lors , du mal à trouver des locataires .
la plupart des burundais préfèrent les maisons des quartiers modestes ( nyakabiga , ngagara , bwiza , mutakura , kanyosha , … ) où le loyer coûte cette situation pénalise ceux qu ’ on croyait riches .
" voilà près d ’ une année que je recherche un locataire .
le dernier occupant de ma maison a déménagé en septembre 2012 pour retourner en europe .
il me payait mensuellement 1 000 & dollar ; sur lesquels je prélevais 600 pour payer mon crédit bancaire , dit un vieux retraité , propriétaire d ’ une maison à deux niveaux .
le reste me servait pour la survie .
aujourd ’ hui , la banque menace de vendre ma maison et je risque de crever de faim . "
les nombreux commissionnaires qu ’ il a dépêchés avec 500 & dollar ; à la clé s 'ils lui trouvaient un locataire n ’ ont pas réussi .
" les locataires sont hostiles à une offre qui excède 300 000 fbu ( 200 & dollar ; ) .
c ’ est normal , car la misère frappe tout le monde : tous les prix flambent , le taux de chômage est élevé pendant que la la plupart des propriétaires , souvent des retraités , de l 'armée fréquemment , avaient contracté des crédits bancaires pour construire ces maisons .
ils se retrouvent pauvres et désespérés .
" je croyais ainsi m ’ offrir une retraite dorée , mais ma richesse est devenue la source de mes ennuis .
pour avoir beaucoup investi , la banque m ’ a déjà adressé une lettre de mise en demeure et menace de vendre ma maison .
ceux qui ont construit dans les quartiers modestes sont à " notre rôle , explique un chargé des opérations dans une banque commerciale , n ’ est pas de vendre les maisons de nos clients .
la vente aux enchères intervient en dernier recours .
c ’ est pourquoi , nos clients devraient bien mûrir leurs pour construire , certains ont fort travaillé .
d ’ autres ont volé dans les caisses de l ’ état , selon l ’ olucome ( organisation de lutte contre la corruption et les malversations économiques ) .
mais , leur problème est révélateur de la mentalité de ceux qui ont beaucoup d 'argent : au lieu d ’ investir pour le bien-être de leurs concitoyens en proposant des logements décents à des prix raisonnables , ils se sont lancés dans des opérations immobilières pour faire payer les expatriés .
ils oublient que ceux-ci , certes paient plus , mais pour un séjour limité , alors que loger les burundais est un investissement d 'avenir. plusieurs locataires à la fois .
d ’ autres les revendent aux plus riches pour construire dans les quartiers populaires .
quant à la plupart de ceux qui construisent aujourd ’ hui , ils évitent les grands immeubles qui ne trouvent pas de locataires .
" les propriétaires de ces maisons devraient changer de mentalités et indexer les prix au coût de la vie .
le pays est pauvre et certains mangent une seule fois par jour alors qu ’ ils étaient habitués à trois fois .
pourquoi eux n ’ accepteraient-ils pas de réduire le coût du loyer ? " , propose un membre de parcem ( paroles et actions pour le réveil des consciences et l ’ évolution des mentalités ) .
il est impératif de s ’ ajuster .
" les nationaux , même riches préfèrent un loyer peu cher afin d ’ épargner et se construire leur propre logement .
d ’ autres craignent d ’ être pris pour des orgueilleux " , précise oscar commissionnaires de bujumbura .
" souvent , il leur est pénible de mettre la maison à 700 & dollar ; , quand le locataire précédent payait 1000 .
mais , c ’ est mieux que de la laisser vide durant toute une année , estime-t-il .
pourquoi mourir de faim ou voir sa maison vendue aux enchères , alors qu ’ elle coûte des centaines de that may be understandable , although not entirely so as there are persistent complaints on how heslb handles the issuance of the loans .
if that were indeed to be the case , any reason to wonder why some of our teachers , etc . , are associated with lack of commitment to the profession ?
if indeed improving the standard of education and training is one of the priorities of brn , it would be a contradiction if we fail to extend loans to big numbers of those eligible .
une stratégie unique qui englobe pour la première fois l ’ aide humanitaire , la coopération technique et financière , les mesures de politique économique et commerciale et la coopération avec les pays de l ’ est : ce tournant important a été salué aussi bien par le parlement que par l ’ opinion publique , soulignent le directeur de la ddc martin dahinden et marie-gabrielle ineichen-fleisch , secrétaire d ’ etat et directrice du seco , dans le rapport annuel 2012 sur la coopération internationale de la suisse qui vient de sortir de presse .
at least one of the victims - whose identities are not yet known - was the brutality of the killings is feeding fears that a new rebellion is been washing up on the banks of the river ruzizi , close to the border with dr the authorities said the corpses may be linked to last week 's attack in the during the conflict , both president nkurunziza and mr rwasa led mainly hutu set up a power-sharing government followed by elections in 2005 .
commentary : narco-politics : how mexico got there and how it can get out the bollore group was fined by a court in ouagadougou for failing to ship in the turbine for the komsilga on time . ( ... )
president of the association des entreprises japonaises and member of the conseil ( ... ) 29 votos necesita ciudad bolívar para organizar los juegos panamericanos 2019ciudad bolívar compite con santiago ( chile ) , lima ( perú ) y la punta ( argentina ) por ganar la sede de los juegos .
este viernes , desde las 6 : 00 de la tarde en toronto , ... voleibol criollo sub23 suma segundo revés en el mundial de brasilla selección nacional sub 23 de voleibol sumó su segunda derrota en el mundial que disputa en brasil tras caer ante rusia 3-0 , con parciales de 21-16 , .21-15 y 22-20 .... tinaquillo campeón de la liga nacional bolivariana de béisbol 2013el equipo criollitos de tinaquillo , con blanqueada incluida de 7 carreras por 0 sobre indígenas de caracas en el estadio humberto gonzález albano , ganó la noche de ayer ...
29 votos necesita ciudad bolívar para organizar los juegos panamericanos 2019 voleibol criollo sub23 suma segundo revés en el mundial de brasil tinaquillo campeón de la liga nacional bolivariana de béisbol 2013 vinotinto sub 17se prepara en madrid antes del mundial de emiratos árabes el miércoles 9 el combinado patrio jugará ante rayo vallecano , el viernes 11 se medirá al atlético de madrid y finalizará el domingo 13 ante el real madrid , todas oncenas categorías sub 18 odesur complacida con organización de venezuela para iii juegos suramericanos de playa el presidente de la comisión técnica de odesur , fabio ramírez , indicó que el seminario de jefes de comisiones , que se desarrolla desde este viernes y hasta este domingo , ha reunido los requisitos previstos por esta organización ciudad bolívar definirá con chile la sede de panamericanos 2019 la primera vez que venezuela organizó unos juegos panamericanos fue en 1983 .
en aquella ocasión el evento contó con la participación de 36 naciones y más de 3.000 atletas .
este viernes se conocerá qué país organizará los juegos para 2019 .
venezuela compite con chile , argentina y perú miles de inmigrantes marchan en eeuu por la reforma migratoria usi un dispositivo mobile ?
vai a m.huffingtonpost.com per huffpost mobile .
alitalia - il governo non convince le banche a finanziare la compagnia di bandiera .
moretti ( ferrovie dello stato ) per ora non interviene .
palazzo chigi guarda a parigi .
la trattativa prosegue a oltranza mps taglia i dipendenti : 8.000 esuberi entro il 2017 .
i punti del piano di ristrutturazione l 'analisi - il piano asseconda i diktat dell 'europa .
ora la palla passa a bruxelles ( di c.conti ) non infierirò su silvio berlusconi .
perché non sono una fascista non trarrò piacere dalla condanna di nessuno , e non mi sento nemmeno gratificata dal fatto che un leader politico che ho sempre considerato nemico della nostra democrazia - per i suoi conflitti di interesse e per il modo con cui ha trasformato la politica immettendovi il peso del denaro - abbia fatto questa fine politica in un modo così infamante .
la giustizia ha trionfato ma quando un leader politico fa questo tipo di fine non sta bene l 'intero paese .
e non parlo da moderata .
qualcuno ha , seppur per una frazione di secondo , goduto dell ' insulto rivolto al settantasettenne senatore uscente , non perché ha frodato lo stato o ha condotto l 'italia sull 'orlo del presente baratro , ma perché ha settantasette anni , e , magari , anche qualche problema di salute ?
bene .
allora non siamo ancora stati infettati da quel triste sostituto del pensiero , che va sotto il nome di razzismo .
giornalista , presidente del forum del pd per la riforma del sistema radiotelevisivo oltre alla palese discriminazione di trattamento che la presidenza della camera riserva ai cittadini , emerge anche una chiara volontà politica nel non incontrare i promotori della proposta di legge popolare " eutanasia legale " .
a quanto pare per la presidente ci sono dei temi da integrare e dei temi , quale quello del fine-vita , da tacitare e clandestinizzare .
nella fiera ospitata nel palazzo dei congressi all 'eur c 'era veramente di tutto : da robot in grado di riconoscere le persone , al portiere che para tutti i rigori , alla bicicletta a realtà aumentata per ritrovarsi magicamente nel cuore di roma , passando poi per i robot in grado di riprodurre musica , al riciclo dei materiali per la riproduzione dell 'energia o di nuovi oggetti .
insomma a makerfaire c 'era il futuro .
vorremmo rendere questo paese forte e consapevole , accogliente e capace di proporre soluzioni alla tragedia di una umanità disperata che " semplicemente " per vicinanza , sbarca sulle nostre coste per l 'urgente desiderio di cambiare la propria vita , per un destino migliore : desiderio legittimo e assolutamente da difendere .
direttore generale istituto di alti studi in geopolitica e scienze ausiliarie , condirettore della rivista geopolitica il problema è che la finanza , da strumento dell 'economia , ne è divenuta il cuore .
la banca , da strumento dell 'impresa , ne è diventata proprietaria .
la borsa non è più lo strumento degl 'investitori ma il tempio degli speculatori .
la speculazione ha superato l 'investimento , la rendita i profitti .
questo è il problema a monte che rende qualsiasi ripresa fragile , e il sistema economico globale squilibrato e instabile .
capogruppo pd primo municipio roma .
presidente del centro studi democrazie digitali carlo lizzani era uno di quei compagni di sezione che infondevano in noi più giovani un insieme di orgoglio e timore reverenziale .
mi ricordo quando in una di quelle telefonate gli dissi con una certa emozione che avremmo istituito il cineforum della sinistra giovanile , e lui di rimando mi lasciò subito una lezione di autoironia degna di groucho marx : " non proiettate miei film , proiettate quelli belli ! " .
insegnante precaria , segretario del circolo bolognese “ joyce salvadori lussu ” del pd non posso fare a meno di pensare con tanta amarezza che i migranti morti a lampedusa sono solo 25 di quelle centinaia di migliaia di persone che ieri avranno sentito quel servizio in tv e a cui , più o meno blandamente , è stato suggerito che in fondo potevano risparmiarsi le lacrime perché i " clandestini se la sono cercata " .
superata la mentalità vecchia , ora non resta che sperare che gli sforzi vengano concentrati nello scovare e punire i proprietari di tutti quei tipi di ricchezze formatesi nell 'oscurità .
servirà tanta luce artificiale per poter fare questo lavoro .
coraggio .
visti i risultati già ottenuti ne vale la pena .
hanno vinto loro , quelli che la la responsabilità e la vergogna è sempre degli altri : del destino , della malasorte , del mare , della cattiva provvidenza , degli altri governi , dei pescherecci , di chi la fa l 'aspetti , di chi se l 'è anche un po ' cercata , degli scafisti , dei terroristi .
probabilmente non abbiamo le stesse idee dal punto di vista politico .
ma una cosa ci unisce .
qual è oggi il ruolo degli intellettuali ?
devono piegarsi alla logica della ragion di stato o devono rappresentare quell 'elemento di trascendenza , che ha preservato , nella storia , quell 'idea di progresso e di pacifica convivenza che ha consentito all 'umanità tutta di progredire ?
la tua presa di posizione mi ha fatto tornare alla memoria il teatro di jean paul sartre , spesso osteggiato dal partito comunista francese , benché sartre fosse vicino a quelle posizioni .
assessora alle politiche educative e delle famiglie , cittadinanza delle donne , cultura delle differenze , toponomastica del comune di venezia accorpare le strutture , ridurre i giorni di degenza ed i servizi , non ci sta obbligando a nuovi pellegrinaggi della salute ?
i cittadini non vogliono un polo d 'eccellenza difficile da raggiungere in condizioni di salute non ottimale , ma la certezza di potersi curare laddove vivono .
le tappe francesi concludono il viaggio della carovana internazionale antimafie 2013 , ma la lotta per la legalità continua !
senza retorica , evitando quella folklorizzazione delle mafie che spesso rallenta la nostra azione e che , come narciso , ci paralizza nel nostro compiacimento .
è un percorso che con la ligue dell 'enseignement , nostro partner transalpino , abbiamo concentrato in due parole : educazione popolare .
avvocato e docente presso la luiss guido carli di roma berlusconi , in qualsiasi momento , potrebbe rassegnare le dimissioni da senatore , per " bloccare " la votazione sulla decadenza .
le dimissioni non sarebbero automatiche , ma andrebbero votate dall 'aula : e ciò avverrebbe a scrutinio segreto , trattandosi di votazione riguardante persone .
tuttavia tali ( eventuali ) dimissioni potrebbero anche essere respinte ( in questa legislatura , ad esempio , sono state respinte le dimissioni della senatrice giovanna mangili appartenente al movimento cinque stelle ) .
cosa accadrebbe in quel caso ?
questa sonda che venne lanciata nel lontano settembre 1977 continua a stupirci dopo ben 36 anni , diventando il primo manufatto umano a raggiungere lo spazio interstellare .
è veramente un momento storico come pochi altri , paragonabile senza ombra di dubbio alla scoperta dell 'america e al primo passo dell 'uomo sulla luna .
staccare il contatore dell 'elettricità vuol dire scaldare l 'acqua per il bagno sul fuoco , fare il bucato con i piedi , vuol dire fare silenzio e ... in una parola rallentare .
come definisco questo libro : una seria opportunità per rimettere in discussione alcune nostre abitudini e la nostra vista .
buona lettura !
lampedusa : difficile trovare le parole .
e assurdo parlare di libri boldrini e fine-vita : quello schiaffo di 34 giorni a 67.000 persone caro vito crimi , grazie a te abbiamo capito di non essere razzisti " dateci 10 miliardi " ansala richiesta di squinzi al governo .
e parla anche di alitalia , finmeccanica e ....
i lettiani preferiscono pensare al governo .
ma boccia resta con renziagf ( di a.mauro ) giachetti riprende lo sciopero della fame e lancia il " no porcellum day " ansapolemiche nel pd , d 'attorre : " vuole solo farsi pubblicità " l 'analisi - mps , il piano di ristrutturazione asseconda i diktat dell 'europa .
ora la palla passa a bruxelles ( di c.conti ) visco avverte le banche : " più prestiti a imprese e famiglie , meno btp " imu , la proposta per la prima rata sulle case di lusso prima bocciata e poi riammessathinkstockl 'emendamento a firma pd usa a rischio default .
la casa bianca appoggia proposta dei democratici ( foto ) reutersinnalzare il tetto del debito di un anno .
obama sfida boehner " eutanasia , per una legge pietosa e giusta " .il disegno di legge presentato dal senatore manconi occupy wall street : " stiamo imparando dai cinque stelle come vincere le elezioni negli usa " la diaria ?
meglio incassarla che restituirlatwitteril caso di ivan catalano ( m5s ) accordo tra gruppo espresso e telecom sull 'integrazione dei multiplexthinkstocks & p : possibile taglio del rating telecom a " junk " servizi sociali a primaveraansase si votasse a febbraio il cav potrebbe fare campagna elettorale da uomo libero ...
de lorenzo : " i servizi sociali sono un calvario " ansail racconto dell 'ex ministro della prima repubblica " il cervello della scissione del pdl sono i ciellini sostenuti da cicchitto " la7la polverini a " l 'aria che tira " ( video ) iva , confesercenti avverte : " il gettito crolla perché calano i consumi " thinkstock " e con l 'aumento al 22 % sarà ancora peggio ... "
" tagli alla scuola privata per quella pubblica " agfrodotà presenta la manifestazione di sabato con landini e zagrebelsky l 'antitrust apre un procedimento contro il viceministro de lucaansadoppia carica , sindaco e viceministro guerra interna tra giannino e boldrinansala posta in gioco ?
i dati personali degli utenti ...
la biancofiore non si rassegna : " contro di me mobbing politico " ( foto , video ) agf barilla dopo la gaffe sui gay incontra la comunità lgbt ( foto video ) barillafaccia a faccia con franco grillini " non voglio più vivere sotto scorta " ( foto ) lapressesaviano sogna di ritornare all 'estero per rifarsi una vita " berlusconi dovrà raccogliere l 'immondizia per un anno " ( foto ) daily mailil daily mail prende in giro il cavaliere monti-d 'alema-rodotà .
e prodi non passòagfla ricostruzione della bocciatura al quirinale in un libro dell 'ex portavoce del professore " basta distinguo sulle violenze , se ne vada dal partito " ansail pd contro plano , il " suo " capo dei sindaci no tav .
lui replica : " reato d 'opinione ? "
netanyahu : " se gli iraniani fossero liberi ... indosserebbero i jeans " twitterin rete scatta la smentita # jeans ( foto , tweet ) rothman , schekman e sudhof vincono il nobel per la medicinathinkstock il primo ufficiale di coperta : " la nave si allagava ma non mi davano ordini " mailonline / youtubedomnica non si presenta in aula ( video , foto ) egitto : 53 morti , 271 feriti e centinaia di arresti al cairoansanuovi scontri fra islamisti ed esercito ( diretta , foto ) la crisi sventata fa bene al pd : primo partito .
crolla il pdlagfsondaggio repubblica / demos truffa da 150 milioni per il porto fantasma di molfettarepubblica.itindagato anche il senatore pdl azzollini ( video ) leggi gli articoli che potrebbero piacerti e guarda quello che condividono i tuoi amici .
lo portereste mai ?
( foto , video ) tikkertikker , l 'orologio che ti ricorda quando devi morire banksy " spara " contro al qaeda ( foto , video ) banksy ny / youtubei " giardini segreti " dello street artist a new york un labirinto di biciclette ( foto , video ) twitterla nuova installazione di ai weiwei a toronto pacchetti shock anche in italia ?
( foto ) ansala direttiva europea domani al voto al bruxelles da verdone a bud spencer , l 'ultimo saluto a giuliano gemma ( foto ) ansail sindaco veltroni , gli attori e gli amici a roma per i funerali lo spot " vietato " sul cancro al seno ( foto , video ) nhs scotland cibo ?
ne buttiamo via 8 miliardi all 'anno ( foto ) thinkstocki 10 consigli per non sprecarlo per la seconda volta è la donna più sexy del mondo ( foto , video ) esquirel 'esquire premia l 'attrice " vigata burger " , il panino del commissario montalbano lo mangi a .... www.vigata.co.uk è lo scatto che " batte tutti " ( foto ) facebook luca parmitano fotografa l 'aurora boreale troppe ore sui social ?
occhio al sessotips10 rimedi per difendersi dal tecnostress ( foto ) principesse in una terra di machos ( foto ) okin friolile trans messicane fotografate da nicola " okin " frioli un tè all 'erba del diavolo ?
wikipediaa treviso tre ragazzi rischiano la vita ( foto ) marina berlusconi tra le 25 donne più potenti del mondoagf ritorno a fukushima ( foto ) reuters24 ore nelle città abbandonate dopo lo fuga radioattiva " the visitors " ( foto ) ragnar kjartansson kjartansson celebra la fine di un amore all 'hangarbicocca di milano spot contro il razzismo ( foto ) unari migliori degli ultimi 20 anni " centomila giornate di preghiera " ( immagini ) coconino pressil genocidio cambogiano diventa graphic novel we got our weekly update from joe jordan of nebraska watchdog.org.
this week he talked about rep. lee terry apologizing for comments he made last week in which he said he would continue to take his paycheck while civilian federal workers who are furloughed are going unpaid & hellip ; it wasn ’ t the fact he was taking his paycheck but how he said it and it has motivated democrats to push harder to get a candidate to run against terry in 2014 .
jerry hudson made his weekly appearance to talk about the shutdown of the government and the ww ii veterans who stormed the ww ii memorial in washinton after it was closed on tuesday .
more to the point , petitioning congress to repeal a bad law through formal procedures is not the kind of behavior educated people normally associate with anarchism .
indeed , the hypocrisy of liberals who find it somehow & ldquo ; extreme & rdquo ; for citizens to organize peacefully to overturn a law they consider bad and unjust is a marvel to behold .
the fugitive slave act was once the law of the land .
so was the defense of marriage act .
were those determined to overturn them anarchists ?
the hypocrisy goes deeper though .
yes , obamacare is the law of the land .
but it is president obama — who is legally and constitutionally required to faithfully execute the law — and not republicans who has openly defied it .
he has unilaterally and often with no statutory authority opted to waive and delay the parts of the affordable care act that are politically inconvenient to him ( or that his administration has been too incompetent to implement ) . — jonah goldberg is the author of the tyranny of clichés , now on sale in paperback .
you can write to him by e-mail at goldbergcolumn @ gmail.com , or via twitter @ jonahnro . © 2013 tribune media services , inc .
bay area ’ s resurgent women ’ s roller derby scene ’ less like a show ’ than before thu jun 20 , 2013 4 : 08 pm edt john muir ’ s tree may see new life through cloning thu jun 20 , 2013 12 : 08 pm edt oakland athletics ’ move now on court ’ s timetable rather than mlb ’ s thu jun 20 , 2013 10 : 08 am edt youth rope , race and ride at rodeo in gridley mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt orland man completes once-in-a-lifetime trek mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt yo-yo champions duke it out for title in competition sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt tesla ceo responds to concerns over fire in one of its model s vehicles sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 08 am edt bart unveils ’ fleet of the future ’ model train car / a mon jul 22 , 2013 6 : 08 pm edt oakland zoo brings in new warthogs for breeding / a mon jul 22 , 2013 4 : 08 pm edt man on ’ sole searching ’ mission to run every street in long beach tue aug 13 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt man who jumped off long beach ’ s belmont pier on life support mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 08 am edt ex-l.a. mayor antonio villaraigosa to be ’ visiting fellow ’ at harvard tue aug 13 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt ’ breaking bad ’ episode dedicated to late calabasas teen kevin cordasco mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt car-show-themed ’ flash mob ’ expected tuesday in burbank near krispy kreme at empire center mon aug 12 , 2013 8 : 08 pm edt silverado mulch fire grows to 50 acres ; firefighter injured mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt the field of dreams for freelance filmmakers is fertile in l.a. mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt deputy involved shooting in castaic sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt thousands get out of the car and onto their bikes at ciclavia mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt in rim fire ’ s aftermath , controversy over the recovery effort sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt constitutional crisis : we the people have had it with the shutdown sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 08 pm edt gas prices drop sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 08 pm edt chess-in in san francisco sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 08 pm edt power surge burns appliances in palm springs , neighbors ask sce to pay up sat oct 5 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt sacworldfest exhibits great range in old city mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt fiscal picture cloudy at best mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt stockton city manager : ’ we need new taxes ’ wed oct 2 , 2013 2 : 08 pm edt dozens of homes evacuated in sf bay area wildfire sun sep 8 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt how to master comparison shopping mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt not all davis residents excited for new cannery housing project sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt two californians share 2013 nobel in medicine mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt miscues doom chargers in loss to raiders mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt bolts lose ryan mathews to concussion mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt chargers lose ryan mathews to concussion mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt aztecs start prepping for the triple option mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt 3.1-magnitude quake shakes up the east bay mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt ed lee is father of the bride this week mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt man fatally hit by truck in s.f. is identified mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt mexican soup for the soul mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt san francisco renting made easier mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt brock solidifies his position as full time cornerback for the 49ers mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt professor offers advice on a career in higher education in the bay area mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt 49ers pound schaub , texans in lopsided 34-3 win mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 08 am edt in asia , prepare for the post-superpower era mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 08 am edt ’ long wait ’ for anorexia treatment mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 08 am edt stanford : man held in dui traffic fatality sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 08 pm edt ex-student faces life in prison for ’ prank ’ sex attack on peninsula high schoolteacher thu oct 3 , 2013 6 : 08 pm edt grape stomp fun at the harvest fair mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 08 am edt a helping hand for homeless vets sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 08 pm edt a judge of character sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 08 pm edt sonoma city council to decide on dogs in montini preserve sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 08 pm edt but was the destruction wrought by the 6.3-magnitude earthquake on feb .
22 as bad as it looked in media reports ?
" the way out was blocked by all the bookcases that had fallen over and the broken debris .
the owner said not to worry about breaking anything , just get us out of the shop .
as sally says , i went into ‘ mel-dozer ’ mode and quickly cleared a trail , ” said mel moore , a man who would size up well on an nfl offensive line .
" as i was about to hit the send button , we have had another severe shock , ” chuck ’ s message concluded .
the next thing he heard was a voice in a german-sounding accent asking him if he was ok .
the man helped naughton to the middle of the street .
naughton was bleeding from the back of his head , and his knee was throbbing .
but he was alive .
" imagine standing on something like the ground , which we normally trust , and now it is doing everything it can to knock you down , ” naughton said .
" this one was over as soon as it started — thankfully .
i looked around , and noticed a tall building on every corner and decided it was time to walk to a safer place . ”
the sea ice in mcmurdo sound was finally breaking up to an extent not seen in more than a decade .
all it needed was a good push with a little bit of wind .
" all in all , i probably worked on 50 people , ” berry said .
" we ran out of bandages and splinting material , so a local cop and an intern raided one of the tourist shops and returned with boxes of tea towels and ‘ i love nz ’ pillows .
we used the pillows for soft splints on arms and legs , and made splints out of cardboard and cafe signs — all tied up with tea towels . ”
by the end of tuesday , the moores and the others they had met in victoria square would be joined by about 100 usap people at the cdc , which would become a temporary shelter through the end of the week .
that night everyone was fed and given sleeping bags .
it had taken him about an hour to walk to a medical center off bealey avenue , where one of the out-of-town urologists sewed up his arm while a nurse cleaned all his other scrapes and cuts .
the experience taught naughton that he has little desire to live in an earthquake-prone city , to say the least .
" during wednesday and thursday , our big adventure was going to cdc to get any news , ” said mel moore , mcmurdo supply operations supervisor .
" sally would use our five minutes of allocated computer time to updateher mom , who would in turn updatemy mom .
then we would go to the airport … and get some supplies .
we were just so excited when we were able to purchase a change of clothes so we could do laundry . ”
lynn dormand and her team back at rpsc reviewed nearly a thousand different travel itineraries as they scrambled to reroute people in new zealand , as well as those who would be coming off the ice in the next week or so .
they had re-ticketed more than 500 people at the time of this report .
" i cannot say enough about the raytheon staff [ in christchurch ] , ” said mel moore , as he summed up his story .
" the best way i can put it is that the christchurch we knew is gone , and we have no desire to repeat the experience . "
commentary : tourism matters : how much longer can we go on shooting ourselves in the foot ?
home | about | search | site map | blog | discuss stateline looked at some of the most consequential or controversial issues on the ballot this fall .
a pair of tax measures — one levying taxes on newly legal marijuana , the other altering the state ’ s income tax system to support education — could make history in colorado .
“ both of these , there ’ s going to be lots of money spent in favor of them , and not a lot of money opposed to them , ” tecza said .
“ but the general mood of the state is anti-tax . ”
commentary : belize needs to make a stand on the reparations issue for its peopleopinion el español de venezuela nunca figuró en los textos escolares criollosen total , unos 35 millones de libros gratuitos de esta colección empezó a distribuir el gobierno nacional a los estudiantes de las escuelas y liceos públicos del país .... ¿ quién controla los precios en venezuela ? el más reciente informe del indice nacional de precios al consumidor ( inpc ) , que considera una canasta de precios de bienes y servicios , registró una variación ... pueblo se organiza para luchar por la estabilidad económica y la seguridad alimentariafallas de abastecimiento en productos básicos , sobreprecios a niveles alarmantes , acaparamiento .
estos son los tres elementos básicos que han alertado a los venezolanos ...
pueblo se organiza para luchar por la estabilidad económica y la seguridad alimentaria " en nuestro país el fascismo ya estuvo hace muchas horas presente ; en los atentados terroristas , volando los puente , cortando las vías férreas , destruyendo los oleoductos y los gaseoductos , frente al silencio de quienes tenían la obligación de proceder .
estaban comprometidos .
la historia los juzgará a cinco años de la quiebra de lehman brothers no hay castigo para grandes banqueros lehman brothers fue el primero de varios bancos que cayeron por una crisis atribuida a los llamados créditos subprime , aquellos con un nivel de riesgo mayor al promedio , y que se extendió velozmente el caudal de esa magia lo envolvía y siempre lo acompañó .
ríos de miradas , de brazos , de sonrisas , de lágrimas y de corazones fluían casi sin control en cada lugar al que llegaba .
la cabecera de esa corriente revolucionaria que generó chávez estaba en venezuela pero fue creciendo en el zulia el pueblo legisla y controla sus leyes en el nuevo modelo de gestión social september 27 , 2013 let ’ s start from the beginning the cancer is spreading , people hungry and begging but because of their conditioning no one is moving and no one is helping dog eat dog this is what ’ s happening with the bay men ’ s logwood cutting then squatting isabela and ferdinand ’ s enriching ...
dish ’ s management is regarded as so inconsiderate to employees , customers , and shareholders that businessweek recently called it “ the meanest company in america ” and blamed long-time chief charlie ergen as the primary cause .
lawsuit against blackberry alleges execs misled investors on company 's state forecasting and predictions are not crystal balls . i hate large corporations and believe the ceos are innately evil , but this is ridiculous .
boy i wish my blackberry had an app for ... well anything other than email and a calendar .
note to bb users , you have to go out of your way to find a phone with a crappy camera . oh , i forgot , you use a black berry .
did you read the article ?
it has nothing to do with phone buyers .
it has to do with comments made by leadership in the months before the stock plummeted by 50 % in 3 months. having said all that , if bb has any customers left the windows phone is the best platform for business phone and of course as a smartphone for adults in general .
also now that everyone has a personal mobile it makes no sense to carry two handsets around , one for work and one for personal calls . ( a ) the higher the rate of pay and the greater the length of service of the employee , the fewer the absences ; ( a ) culpable absenteeism : culpable absenteeism refers to lateness or absence problems for which the employee should be held responsible because the problems are within the employee ’ s power to address and correct ( anonymous , 2004 ) .
for instance an employee who is on sick leave even though he / she is not sick , and can be proven that the employee was not sick is guilty of culpable absenteeism .
the four key types of culpable absenteeism are : ( b ) non-culpable ( innocent ) absenteeism : innocent absenteeism refers to the absence of employees due to illness or injury for reasons beyond the employees ’ control .
innocent absenteeism is not culpable which means that it is blameless .
innocent absenteeism is not subject to disciplinary action but is approached on the basis of identifying and understanding the medical needs of the employee and any restrictions as identified by the employees ’ health care practitioner .
because it is not measured , chronic absenteeism is not acted upon .
like bacteria in a hospital , chronic absenteeism can wreak havoc long before it is discovered .
stateline — in the west , gop governors skeptical of cap-and-trade , but will watch california that ’ s the beauty of state policy , herbert said , “ these are the laboratories of democracy .
( california ) can experiment and not jeopardize the rest of the country . ”
but herbert and his fellow republican governors at the meeting aren ’ t banking on the program ’ s success .
“ a lot of people are a little skeptical , ” herbert said .
“ they look at the european ( cap-and-trade system ) .
it doesn ’ t get the results promised . ”
“ i don ’ t know if any of us disagrees that there ’ s climate change , ” herbert said .
“ the question is , what is man ’ s impact on climate change ? ”
renewable energy advocates will be looking to michigan on tuesday ( november 6 ) , hoping its voters validate a bold experiment in growing the state ’ s renewable energy portfolio : if at first you ’ re stymied at the statehouse , just but it on the ballot — and in the constitution .
for his part , chairman for the association of pentecostal churches in tanzania , daniel batenzi asked the leaders to be selflessness in serving the society . & ldquo ; we had not anticipated this or had any hunch that was coming .
in my own personal opinion it could not have come at a worst time , & rdquo ; he told winn fm .
pointing out that brunton has been intimately involved in the re-fleeting initiative , the trade unionist said a new ceo would have to familiarize himself with what was going on in the company .
in late august , brunton was optimistic when he spoke to winn fm that the company would ride the storm of disruptions and get back on track .
it was confirmed on monday however , by vincentian prime minister ralph gonsalves , whose country is a key shareholder in liat , that brunton had tendered his resignation .
the board is expected to meet on wednesday to discuss the matter .
according to gonsalves , brunton has made a good contribution to liat and it will be hard to find a replacement .
pumpkin carving in mandan sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 22 pm edt st. george ’ s pet blessing sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 22 pm edt united way fundraiser sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 22 pm edt bismarck man to be featured in insanity infomercial sun oct 6 , 2013 03 : 22 am edt german-russian collection to be showcased sun oct 6 , 2013 03 : 22 am edt bowls for babies to help march of dimes sun oct 6 , 2013 03 : 22 am edt woodcarving annual show coming up in bismarck sun oct 6 , 2013 03 : 22 am edt obit : phyllis maddock thu oct 3 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt obit : wilfred wipperling thu oct 3 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt obit : raelee jeanette stinkeoway thu oct 3 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt obit : myrna robinson thu oct 3 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt when it comes to sugar , fargo man ’ knew enough was enough ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 22 am edt ’ no wrong answer ’ : medora preapares to raze badlands pizza parlor building sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 22 am edt the final day of hostfest sun oct 6 , 2013 5 : 22 pm edt the final day of hstfest sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 22 am edt man assaulted outside of minot bar sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 22 am edt viking spirit alive at hstfest sat oct 5 , 2013 01 : 22 am edt meet the authors of the hstfest sat oct 5 , 2013 01 : 22 am edt canada eyes bakken as an example sat oct 5 , 2013 7 : 22 pm edt moen earns mark as guard marksman fri oct 4 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt job hopefuls embark on mission to work fri oct 4 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt ditka runs bakken formation in talk fri oct 4 , 2013 1 : 22 pm edt продинфо - новости : цены на продукты питания в беларуси за семь месяцев увеличились на 6,1 % - продовольственный рынок беларуси поискпродукцияпроизводителисырьеупаковкаоборудованиевсе группыалкогольбезалкогольная продукциядрожжизерно , крупазамороженная продукцияконсервированная продукциякрахмал , чипсы , картофелепродуктыкондитерские изделиямакаронные изделиямукамасложировая продукциямолочная продукциямясная продукцияовощи , фрукты , ягоды , травыптицеводческая продукцияпивопищевые концентраты и снекирыба и морепродуктысахарсок , нектарсольспирттабачные изделияуксусхлебобулочная продукциячай , кофе , какаокорма для животныхжиржелатинсода пищеваясухофрукты , цукатымеддетское питаниевсе регионыминскбрестская областьвитебская областьгомельская областьгродненская областьминская областьмогилевская областьлечебно-профилактическаяновинки производителей чуп & # 171 ; белтрансхолод & # 187 ; чтуп & # 171 ; ютэк-бел & # 187 ; оао & # 171 ; полоцкий молочный комбинат & # 187 ; рупп & # 171 ; могилевхлебпром & # 187 ; ооо & # 171 ; гсм-пак & # 187 ; оао & # 171 ; кленовичи & # 187 ; оао & # 171 ; калинковичский мясокомбинат & # 187 ; нп ооо & # 171 ; синергия & # 187 ; главная » новости беларуси » цены на продукты питания в беларуси ...
цены на продукты питания в беларуси за семь месяцев увеличились на 6,1 % 12 августа 2010в беларуси за январь-июль 2010 г. цены на продукты питания увеличились на 6,1 % по сравнению с аналогичным периодом прошлого года .
об этом prodinfo.by сообщили в национальном статистическом комитете так , наиболее значительное повышение цен за этот период отмечалось на картофель ( на 35,2 % ) , сахар ( 29,5 % ) , овощи ( 19,8 % ) , коровье масло ( 15,1 % ) , чай ( 11,6 % ) , алкогольные напитки ( 10,3 % ) , кондитерские изделия ( 8,5 % ) , яйца ( 8,4 % ) , табачные изделия ( 6,1 % ) , молоко и молочные продукты ( 5,7 % ) , сыры ( 5,3 % ) , рыбные консервы ( 5,1 % ) , растительное масло ( 4,7 % ) , мясо и птицу ( 4,6 % ) , хлеб и хлебобулочные изделия ( 4 % ) , колбасные изделия и копчености ( 3,9 % ) .
менее значительное повышение цен было на фрукты ( 1,3 % ) , рыбу и морепродукты ( 0,5 % ) , крупы ( 0,1 % ) .
по данным белстата , в то же время за семь месяцев т.г. цены снизились на макаронные изделия все новости | 2007 , 2008 , 2009 , 2010 , 2011 , 2012 , 2013 в 2013 году число убыточных сельскохозяйственных предприятий в беларуси увеличилось mps urge uk to reconsider cutting bilateral aid to burundi ( 2011-10-31 20 : 37 : 43 ) ' there is a need to invest in agriculture .
it 's a the official made the comments at a meeting in the burundian capital bujumbura in the presence of burundian vice-president gervais how to build back institutions that stand in the way of effective recovery , " she she said it is important to know whether set objectives burundi has a lot of potential to develop its economy , she " there is a need to invest in agriculture .
it 's a sector ezekwesili is on a four-day visit in burundi , as part of a project in the capital bujumbura and the prasab agro-pastoral project in central melchior ndadaye came to an end in august 2005 , with the holding of historic he said all appointed officials have the competence in the all of them are not from the ruling party , " he said. that " lack of knowledge and capacity are an obstacle to burundi 's economy of “ river republic : the fall and rise of america ’ s rivers . ” disappointed in herbert ’ s decision .
“ in the coming days and weeks , we will questions to the state ’ s division of environmental protection , which did not answer “ this is where we ’ ll figure out who has the political will and connections to get this thing done . ”
the call was made at the weekend in dar es salaam at the launch of dcb commercial bank plc ’ s agency banking : dcb jirani , dcb connect ( internet banking ) and dcb mobile banking in dar es salaam by finance minister dr william mgimwa .
whittlebury hall hotel and spa has made it through to the regional finals of the british chambers of commerce awards .
we use grapeshot as a contextual targeting technology , allowing us to create custom groups of stories outside out of our usual site navigation .
grapeshot stores the categories of story you have been exposed to .
their privacy policy and opt out option can be accessed here . | agencia venezolana de noticias blackberry shares up on report of buyout interestdubuque telegraph heraldblackberry ltd in talks with cisco , google and sap about sale of parts or ... financial postsee all 166 sourcesrelated blackberry limited the last bass trip of the year mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 14 am edt proud growers exhibit gargantuan gourds and stupendous squash mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt man shot and killed in north yarmouth sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 14 pm edt northern new england shows off at paris air show sun jun 16 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt clippers edge warriors on tiebreaker thu oct 3 , 2013 08 : 14 am edt kennebunk runners third at wmc meet thu oct 3 , 2013 08 : 14 am edt bird watchers see lots of hawk traffic mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt police searching for missing winthrop man sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 14 pm edt winthrop man missing sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt ’ wicked fast ’ time posted in maine marathon sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 14 pm edt alternatives lacking in mainecare rides mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt and thatâ € ™ s a good thing if youâ € ™ re interested in learning about whatâ € ™ s happening in the atmosphere above the continent at one of the harshest times of the year. â € œthatâ € ™ s the capability weâ € ™ ve never had before : fly at a reasonably constant altitude and constant density surface and remain aloft for weeks if not months , â €  said deshler , a professor in the university of wyomingâ € ™ s department of atmospheric sciences as the line of sight of the gps signal from any of the orbiting global positioning satellites passes deeper into the atmosphere , the signal path is refracted â € ” bent and delayed â € ” by the density changes in the atmosphere .
the refraction is measured by the doppler shift of the carrier frequency of the gps signal , providing information on the pressure , temperature and humidity structure of the atmosphere .
the french team investigated the vortex core mechanics to see how well it isolates the polar winter air .
it is this isolation that allows the air to cool to psc temperatures , and then for ozone to be destroyed by chlorine activated on pscs during the winter. â € œit was a pretty big instrument development activity , â €  avallone said. â € œthereâ € ™ s not enough power on the balloon gondola that we can operate continuously , â €  deshler said. â € œwe have to sample pretty deep into the cloud to see the formation of [ the nat ] particles.â €  isabel blanes abad recently celebrated her birthday in campello .
a birthday is always special , but the lunch party at a campello restaurant was even more special because isabel blanes is now 104 years old .
she was born in alcoy in 1909 and worked as a seamstress but now lives with & # 8230 ; anne arundel county sheriff ’ s office using deputy dog to sniff out drugs in jails wed oct 2 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt trooper in critical condition after being hit by car in pasadena sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt son of fallen officer throws out first pitch at orioles game fri sep 6 , 2013 12 : 15 pm edt first frozen yogurt shop opens in arbutus mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt taneytown teen and scholarship winner is a veteran volunteer mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt carrolltown mall redevelopment set to begin thu oct 3 , 2013 12 : 15 pm edt portable toilet set on fire in manchester tue sep 10 , 2013 12 : 15 pm edt manchester motorcyclist dies in crash sat sep 7 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt renovations completed at bel air town center sat oct 5 , 2013 08 : 15 am edt harford may need new water sources in the future , dpw engineer says sat oct 5 , 2013 08 : 15 am edt ca reduces membership fees for furloughed employees fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt officer in training shooting says he was expected to carry gun mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 15 am edt edgar allan poe ’ s house reopens sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt sun investigates batts ’ method questioned in personal ’ investigative stop ’ sat oct 5 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt aclu poll finds growing support for legalizing pot thu oct 3 , 2013 08 : 15 am edt man found shot in parkville sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt 4 nonprofits to get $ 3.75m grants in baltimore mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 15 am edt national cathedral dean : homophobia is a sin sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt baltimore ’ s poe house reopens for october weekends sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 15 pm edt wilmington police to run with vet who was punched sat oct 5 , 2013 8 : 15 pm edt lights go out during ravens postgame interview sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 15 pm edt 11 hurt in 6-car pileup on crain highway sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt remembrance in the park was a tribute to lost lives tue sep 10 , 2013 10 : 15 pm edt md. lawmaker questions steps to cut gun buy backlog tue sep 10 , 2013 8 : 15 pm edt grand jury indicts former hagerstown city councilwoman tue sep 10 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt millsboro man killed in south bethany crash sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt police : man who set himself ablaze on mall dies sat oct 5 , 2013 2 : 15 pm edt bicyclist injured in seaford crash sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt millsboro man killed in crash in south bethany sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt rapport sur le développement humain en afrique 2012 : vers une sécurité alimentaire durable port-louis , 7 août ( ips ) - le tourisme , l 'agriculture , la pêche , la fourniture d ’ eau , qui constituent les vrais fondements de la société et de l 'économie à l ’ île maurice , sont menacés par le changement climatique .
pendant que ce pays insulaire de l ’ océan indien développe ses stratégies d 'adaptation , il travaille pour bien former la prochaine génération de citoyens aux principes de développement durable .
share information through reliefweb to better inform humanitarians worldwide.editorial | cadran politic criza din siria nu mai este de mult o contestare politică a puterii şi nici un conflict limitat în cadrul frontierelor ţării .
a devenit un război civil crunt şi chiar unul internaţional .
este o confruntare sângeroasă în care au murit mii , chiar zeci de mii de oameni .
sute de mii s-au refugiat în alte ţări .
după patru ani succesivi de criză financiară , economică şi mai recent politică ( neo ) liberalismul îşi arată toate hibele .
din 1990 , o dată cu căderea regimurilor comuniste în europa de est asistăm la un asalt continuu al liberalismului şi în ultimii ani ai neoliberalismului .
ni se spune mereu de către politicienii liberali de pretutindeni că statul este „ un administrator prost ” ...
anul 2012 a debutat în românia cu ample proteste împotriva clasei politice şi cu speranţa că societatea civilă din ţara noastră ar putea reveni ca o alternativă în construcţia şi elaborarea de politici publice şi de supraveghere activă a vieţii democratice .
celebra trupă rem , cea care a lansat melodia cu titlul de mai sus nu se mai simte nici ea foarte bine , căci tocmai s-a destrămat , parcă , tocmai ca să întărească şi mai mult pesimismul ce se abate peste lume în ultimele luni .
criza economică , socială şi politică care a început de câtva vreme pare a cuprinde întreaga lume , fără excepţie .
în lipsă de variante , pd a ales să meargă încă o dată pe mâna lui traian băsescu , dovedind că rămâne un partid mic , incapabil să evolueze în absenţa unui tătuc .
a spune că la congres a câştigat emil boc este o glumă condescendentă .
emil boc nu poate să mai câştige nimic .
are o cotă de încredere minusculă , subminată de deciziile impopulare , bâlbâielile administrative , nepotism ...
revoltele populaţiei din statele arabe împotriva propriilor regimuri sunt relatate zilnic în mass-media încă de la debutul lor în decembrie 2010 .
cel mai adesea auzim vorbindu-se despre „ opoziţia pro-democraţie ” care demonstrează în stradă împotriva lide ­ rilor autoritarişti şi a guvernelor pe care le conduc .
este demo ­ craţia compatibilă cu mentalul colectiv arab ?
demo ­ craţia ...
traian băsescu scade în sondaje , dar nu din cauza crizei .
toată lumea ştie că , dintre toţi candidaţii potenţiali la alegerile prezidenţiale , marinarul este cel mai pregătit să găsească şi să aplice soluţii .
faţă de mircea geoană sau crin antonescu , al căror discurs este încă abstract , distant , „ american ” , ca o bicicletă pedalând în gol , traian băsescu prinde concretul ...
administraţia obama diferă foarte mult de cea a pre ­ decesorului său din punctul de vedere al politicii externe .
spre deosebire de provocările cu care se confruntă acasă politicile economice ale lui obama , strategia sa de politică externă progresează rapid , mult mai rapid decât ne-am fi aşteptat .
după preluarea mandatului la casa albă , preşe ­ dintele obama a numit trei trimişi “ super-speciali ” ...
împrumutul extern – o centură de siguranţă , dar pentru cine ?
datele pentru trimestrul al iv-lea 2008 arată că economia românească a început decelerarea şi întrebarea care se pune este dacă avem de-a face cu o reducere a vitezei de creştere ( soft landing ) sau cu o prăbuşire ( hard landing ) .
scăderea creşterii este neaşteptat de mare ( 6,2 % ) , iar cifrele sunt asemănătoare cu scăderile încasărilor la buget pe primele două luni ale anului , de ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressindex mundi - page not found turks and caicos premier says being honest and law abiding is pointless open request to caricom to launch an investigation in turks and caicos september 6 , 2013 this comes as a request for caricom to investigate the possible nationalisation of a 1m usd private asset in the tci .
on wednesday the attorney general of the turks and caicos islands announced that the office of the ag had secretly entered and taken possession of a private asset .
turks and caicos to sign international convention on tax transparency as we do our strategic planning i would like us all to keep four important things in mind : the availability of priests and deacons to minister to the needs of our local church and its parishes .
the infrastructure and financial health of our parishes -- how are we doing , how and where are we spending our resources .
how can we insure that our clergy are healthy and able to minister to our needs ?
are we stretching them too thin ?
how can we help them better serve us ? website or via a third party ( " software " ) , and any application available by issuu via the website or software ( collectively , the issuu service ( " terms " ) .
the issuu service is not available to be determined by a neutral arbitrator and not a judge or jury and your if you are using or opening an account with issuu on behalf of a organization " ) then you represent and warrant that you are an by clicking the " i agree " button or by downloading , installing or otherwise using any portion of the issuu service , you assent to and agree to be bound by these terms and represent that you are at least we reserve the right , at our discretion , to change these terms on a for changes .
we may notify you of changes to these terms by a notice posted on www.issuu.com , by e-mail , upon login to your account on the materially modifies your rights or obligations , you will be required to accept the change in order to continue to use the service .
material your use of the issuu service is subject to any and all additional or certain features of the issuu service that we may post on or link to on the issuu service ( the " additional terms " ) , such as before using a paid service .
we may change fees for any portion of the you are solely responsible for paying all fees and applicable a paid service , you authorize issuu or its third party payment subscription and all other monthly subscriptions you purchase is the will first be charged a pro-rata amount of the subscription fee for the full periodic subscription fee for the next month or year , as last day of the calendar month , if the last day of the calendar month subscription fee to the payment method you provide to us during and payment information that you provide to issuu may be shared by credit , effecting payment to issuu and servicing your account .
the may be determined by agreements between you and the financial methods , the issuer of your payment method may charge you a foreign obligated to pay all outstanding fees and charges relating to your account and your use of the issuu service before termination. made pursuant to a dispute , are at the discretion of issuu .
you are responsible for paying any governmental taxes imposed on taxes .
if requested , you will promptly furnish to issuu the applicable reasonably practicable .
to the extent that issuu is obligated to you may browse the issuu.com website without creating an account , subject to these terms .
in order to use the full features of the issuu service , you must register for an account or log into the issuu information from issuu , you may be asked to provide a password .
you you provide to issuu on registration and at all other times will be or use of your account id , password , or any credit , debit or charge issuu .
you are solely liable for the losses incurred by issuu or others due to any unauthorized use of your issuu service account. in these terms , issuu hereby grants to you a personal , limited , the issuu service to view , use and access user submissions and other other programs , services , or features of the issuu service now or the issuu service must be for personal , non-commercial use only , content available on the issuu service , use the service to collaborate on pre-publication assets , or to integrate the issuu service with the user ’ s website .
for the avoidance of doubt , you are not entitled to any compensation from issuu for any user submissions for any reason you agree not to use or launch any automated system , including messages to the issuu service in a given period of time than a human can reasonably produce in the same period by using a conventional web browser or otherwise use the issuu service to collect or harvest any makes no representations or warranties whatsoever regarding any api or any quality of service available via any api ; ( ii ) issuu may restrict api ; ( iv ) issuu may terminate or deprecate any service or functionality available via an api at any time without notice or liability ; and ( v ) use of some apis may require obtaining an api key from issuu , and issuu may disable any key at any time without notice accordingly , may upgrade the version of the issuu service that you are deems necessary to prevent unauthorized use of the issuu service , to the issuu service , you hereby grant to issuu a worldwide , issuu service , you hereby grant to issuu a worldwide , non-exclusive , right for issuu to convert your published content to issuu ’ s whole or in part ( including excerpts ) , on the issuu service in license granted by you to issuu in this paragraph terminates as to a you are solely responsible for all of your user submissions and you hereby recognize and affirm that the issuu service is merely your user submissions and the consequences of uploading them .
by that : ( 1 ) you are the creator and owner of or have the necessary licenses , rights , consents , and permissions to use and to authorize issuu and issuu 's users to use and distribute your user submissions as necessary to exercise the licenses granted by you in this section and submissions do not and will not : ( i ) infringe , violate , or submissions do not contain any viruses , adware , spyware , worms , or service .
violators of these third-party rights may be subject to although issuu has no obligation to screen , edit , or monitor any issuu has no obligation to screen , edit , or monitor any asset at any time and for any reason , but if issuu elects to exercise its rights with respect to a pre-publication asset as set forth in law , issuu will provide email notice to you and provide you acess to a issuu is not responsible for the accuracy , content , usefulness , or content .
you further understand and acknowledge that you may be or objectionable , and you agree to waive , and hereby do waive , any legal or equitable rights or remedies you have or may have against submissions or any opinion , recommendation or advice expressed in any user submission , and issuu expressly disclaims any and all liability in connection with user submissions .
if notified by a user or a these terms , issuu may investigate the allegation and determine in its issuu does not permit copyright infringing activities on the issuu you agree not to commit any act of the following prohibited conduct : use the issuu service for any purpose other than to disseminate or use the issuu service in violation of any local , state , national , defame , harass , abuse , threaten or defraud users of the issuu consent , or use the content on the issuu service for any commercial with any person or entity , or access the issuu service accounts of transmitted via the issuu service , or perform any other similar limitations on the use of the issuu service or user submissions , or or any user 's enjoyment of them , by any means , including uploading or discover the source code of the issuu service or any part thereof , displayed by issuu in connection with the issuu service in any manner whatsoever , regardless of your use of the embedding functionality of determined by issuu to be a " repeat infringer . "
a repeat infringer is a user who has been notified by issuu of infringing activity violations more than twice or who has had a user submission or any issuu may provide you the opportunity to promote your published consists of a title , body text , and a thumbnail .
the thumbnail is text is entered by you .
issuu reserves the right to change how but issuu does not make any representation , warranty , or other theme , you must use the targeting options to limit the availability of you will disclose clearly and conspicuously that you have been the title and body text in your promotions do not reference issuu and do not utilize any logos or trademarks of issuu ; your promotions do not insult , threaten or harass any person ; issuu may reject , refuse to publish , or remove from the issuu service any promotion or promoted document at any time for any business practice , or service promoted by the promotion or the third party software may be required to use some portions of the may be required to use the service , and your installation and use of are solely responsible for all fees charged by any third party in implementation of third party buttons ( such as " like " or " share " issuu service may include links or references to other web sites or and services are not under issuu ’ s control , and issuu is not set forth in the apple , inc .
app store terms of service .
you terms of service as of the date that you accept the app store terms of service ( which you acknowledge you have had the opportunity to claims that your possession or use of the software infringes a third party ’ s intellectual property rights , apple is not responsible for the of , the issuu service and remove and discard all or any part of your account , user profile , and any user submission , for any reason at any time .
issuu may also in its sole discretion and at any time discontinue providing access to the issuu service , or any part your access to the issuu service or any account you may have or will not be liable to you or any third party for any such termination , abusive or illegal activity may be referred to appropriate law remedies issuu may have at law or in equity .
upon termination for any issuu in operating the issuu service ; or ( iv ) any content or you may cancel a paid service at any time by navigating to your reserves the right to charge you subscription fees through the end of the subscription term that you elected .
if issuu charges you fees for any time by navigating to your account settings within the issuu for any paid service you purchased prior to termination . if issuu terminates your use of any part or all of the issuu service prior to is a result of your breach of these terms , in which case issuu may sole remedy is a pro-rata refund of the purchase price paid for any by registering for an issuu service account , you consent to addition , when you register for an account , you are automatically changing the notification settings from the " account settings " menu in the issuu service is owned and operated by issuu .
the visual and all other elements of the issuu service provided by issuu and owned by users , all materials contained on the issuu service are the property of issuu or its subsidiaries or affiliated companies or otherwise make unauthorized use of the materials .
issuu reserves all of the issuu service , any violation by you of these terms , or any breach of the representations , warranties , and covenants made by you the exclusive defense and control of any matter for which you are proceeding , issuu will use reasonable efforts to notify of any through the issuu service will create any warranty not expressly licensors and subcontractors .
you expressly agree that the use of the issuu service is at your sole risk .
the issuu service and any data , or through the issuu service are provided on an " as is " and " as applications offered on or through the issuu service or any linked harmful components and do not warrant that any of the foregoing will partners do not warrant or make any representations regarding the use or the results of the use of the issuu service or any linked sites in any linked sites at your own discretion and risk and that you will be anticipated profits or any other pecuniary or non-pecuniary loss or damage of any nature whatsoever ) arising out of or relating to these terms or that result from your use or your inability to use the the issuu or other issuu service users , even if issuu or an issuu damages .
applicable law may not allow the limitation or exclusion of liability will be limited to the fullest extent permitted by total liability to you for all damages , losses , and causes of action arising out of or relating to these terms or your use of the issuu by you by reason of any products or services sold or provided on any received through or advertised on the issuu service or received you acknowledge and agree that issuu has offered its products and upon the warranty disclaimers and the limitations of liability set forth in these terms , that the warranty disclaimers and the and fair allocation of risk between you and issuu , and that the warranty disclaimers and the limitations of liability set forth in issuu .
issuu would not be able to provide the issuu service to you on warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain damages .
if you reside is such a jurisdiction , some or all of the above disclaimers , exclusions , or limitations may not apply to you , and you may have remedies or liability contained in these terms apply to you to the fullest extent such limitations or exclusions are permitted under the licenses and authorizations are obtained with respect to the countries an agency of the united states government or written assurances by you you and issuu in the most expedient and cost effective manner , you and arbitrator instead of a judge or jury , may allow for more limited can award .
our agreement to arbitrate disputes includes , but is not limited to all claims arising out of or relating to any aspect of fraud , misrepresentation or any other legal theory , and regardless of you and issuu are each waiving the right to a trial by jury or to relief in a court of law ; or ( iv ) to file suit in a court of law to by the aaa .
the aaa rules and filing forms are available online notice to the email address you provided to issuu for your account .
an describe the nature and basis of the claim or dispute ; and ( ii ) set faith efforts to directly resolve any claim , but if we do not reach an received , you or issuu may commence an arbitration proceeding or file any settlement offer made by issuu or you must not be disclosed to the arbitrator .
you may download or copy a form notice and a form to to the arbitrator ’ s award ; or ( c ) $ 1,000 , whichever is highest .
terms , issuu will reimburse you for your payment of the filing fee payment of any fees will be decided by the aaa rules .
any arbitration registration , or , if no city was provided , in the in aaa office nearest to you , but if the claim is for $ 10,000 or less , you may hearing as established by the aaa rules .
if the arbitrator finds that is frivolous or brought for an improper purpose ( as measured by the the payment of all fees will be governed by the aaa rules .
in such case , you agree to reimburse issuu for all monies previously disbursed by it that are otherwise your obligation to pay under the aaa and award , if any , are based .
the arbitrator may make rulings and resolve disputes as to the payment and reimbursement of fees or no class actions .
you and issuu agree that each may capacity , and not as a plaintiff or class member in any purported issuu agree otherwise , the arbitrator may not consolidate more than one person ’ s claims , and may not otherwise preside over any form of a 30 days of issuu ’ s notice to you of the change , in which case your out of these terms or your use of the service , whether interpreted in a court of law or in arbitration , will be governed by and construed in conflict of law principles .
to the extent that any lawsuit or court proceeding is permitted under these terms , you and issuu agree to the if you use the issuu service in an official capacity for a federal , you only to the extent expressly permitted by your jurisdiction ’ s arbitration .
the terms of section 19 ( a ) – ( h ) do not changes to these terms , by email , regular mail or postings on the invalid .
alternatively , we may give you legal notice by mail to a postal address , if provided by you through the issuu service .
in such following the initial posting .
the failure of issuu to exercise or waiver of such right or provision .
any waiver of any provision of will not affect the validity and enforceability of any remaining may not be transferred or assigned by you , but may be assigned by issuu without restriction .
any assignment attempted to be made in of these terms , and will not be deemed to limit or affect any of the agreement between you and issuu relating to the subject matter signed by both parties , or by a change to these terms made by issuu as you and issuu agree that any cause of action arising out of or we encourage the use of nytimes.com rss feeds for personal use in a news reader or as part of a non- nytimes.com rss feeds by news categorieso naţiune civică | cadran politic mişcarea pentru o naţiune civică susţine revendicările legitime ale populatiei romaniei legate de oprirea derapajului democratic din ţara noastră .
mnc apreciază civismul mişcarilor populare şi condamnă orice formă de violenţă , directă sau simbolică , căci scopul democraţiei este obţinerea şi menţinerea păcii sociale . © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress home english “ geopolitics of xxi century will be cosmo-humanist in its essence ” – about the power of information and policy of millennium iii with acad .
albert ignatenko we have a project that proved to be functional .
it is already working .
we do not depend on anyone to put it into practice .
and how it looms this elite of the informational era ?
if you ask a psychologist or a teacher , or even a politician “ what is elite ? ” , no one would be able to give an answer … what kind of students are preferring you ?
it ’ s easier if there is a certain educational or spiritual background ?
how will be geopolitics of the xxi century , mr. ignatenko ?
how many such politicians know you ?
because , honestly , i don 't know too many which to give signs of “ spiritual awakening ” … you mentioned ( in a previous interview ) about a conservation program of romania 's geno-found .
it ’ s an indirect way of warning that our nation is in danger ?
« previous “ geopolitica secolului xxi va fi una de factură cosmo-umanista ” – despre puterea informatiei si politica mileniului iii , impreuna cu acad .
albert ignatenko © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressoops !
page not found .
but it is still hotly debated .
the new york court of appeals , the state ’ s top court , ruled recently that the state ’ s 2008 law requiring all online retailers to collect a sales tax stands . & # 8220 ; eu , socrate , am învăţat această incantaţie ( descântec ) , acolo , în oaste , de la un medic trac , unul dintre ucenicii lui zamolxis , despre care se zice că îi face pe oameni nemuritori .
spunea tracul acela că zamolxis , care este şi un zeu , ne învăţa că după cum nu trebuie să încercăm a trata ochii , fără să ţinem seama de cap , nici capul nu poate fi tratat , neţinându-se seama ...
17 mai a fost ziua mondială de luptă împotriva hipertensiunii arteriale .
pentru anul 2012 activităţile de celebrare s-au desfăşurat sub sloganul „ un stil de viaţă sănătos – o tensiune arterială normală ” .
scopul campaniei a fost de a informa populaţia cu privire la beneficiile unui stil de viaţă sănătos , pentru menţinerea tensiunii arteriale la valori normale .
elita mondiala a medicinei dentare s-a reunit la bucuresti & # 8211 ; bass 2011 grand hotel rin din bucurești a găzduit în perioada 28 aprilie-1 mai 2011 cel mai amplu eveniment științific al medicinei dentare din românia , cea de-a 16-ediție a congresului societății balkanice de stomatologie . , manifestare patronată de către președintele elect al congresului , prof. univ .
dr. norina consuela forna .
agenda manifestării a cuprins un program știintific variat , reunind ...
operaţiile estetice sunt la mare căutare şi în rândul bărbaţilor în zilele noastre , se pare că intervenţiile chirurgicale este ­ ti ­ ce nu sunt utilizate doar de către femei .
un nou raport statistic in ­ di ­ că faptul că mai mulţi bărbaţi de vârstă mijlocie apelează la procedurile estetice decât altădată .
conform noilor date de la societatea americană de chirurgie plastică ( asp ) , numărul de băr ­ baţi care optează pentru facelift , liposucţie şi ...
specialiştii în controlul infecţiilor se străduiesc să găsească o soluţie pentru gripa porcină care a lovit mexicul , statele unite şi alte zone ale globului .
comunitatea internaţională este mai pregătită ca oricând pentru a face faţă ameninţării ca virusul să se răspândească , asigură unul dintre experţii onu pe probleme de sănătate , citat de bbc .
în primele luni ale primăverii acestui an , majoritatea spitalelor au fost depăşite de avalanşa pacienţilor cu viroze .
în luna martie , numărul internărilor a depăşit 70.000 pe săptămână .
din păcate , s-au înregistrat şi câteva decese în rândul copiilor .
spitalele sunt pline de bolnavi care suferă de viroze , afec ­ ţiune cu debut acut , incu ­ ba ­ ţie scurtă şi care pare a nu fi ...
cancerul cervical este o boală în care celulele normale se transformă în celule maligne ( canceroase ) în ţesutul cervical .
cervixul este porţiunea cea mai joasă şi mai îngustă a uterului ( organul cavitar , sub formă de pară în care creşte fătul ) .
cervixul face legătura între uter şi vagin .
infecţia cu hpv reprezintă cel mai important factor de risc pentru cancerul cervical , fiind ...
diagnosticarea incorectă sau prea târzie a cancerelor afectează milioane de femei cancerul de col uterin , ovarian sau de sân sunt de multe ori diagnosticate greşit sau prea târziu , ceea ce duce la moartea a 70 % dintre femeile care suferă de una dintre aceste boli , potrivit emisarului pe probleme de sănătate al depar ­ tamentului de stat al sua , cunoscuta actriţă fran drescher .
“ cancerul de col uterin şi cel ovarian sunt deseori diagnosticate greşit – cancerul de ...
alimentaţia sănătoasă , mişcarea şi renunţarea la fumat sunt , potrivit medicilor , principalele mijloace de prevenire a diabetului zaharat – maladie cu o mortalitate de aproape 80 la sută şi pentru care , în prezent , un român din trei prezintă risc ridicat de îmbolnăvire .
“ în general , în întreaga lume a crescut riscul de diabet zaharat .
se pare că pro ­ gre ­ sul omenirii se întoarce ...
relatări nedocumentate ale personalului medical din africa şi asia de sud-est scot la lumină un nou curent îngrijorător : medicamente folosite cu succes de ani de zile împotriva malariei , a tuberculozei şi a hiv încep să nu mai dea rezultate .
diagnosticarea eronată a bolii împreună cu folosirea neadecvată sau excesivă a medicamentelor joacă un rol important , mai ales în ţări unde ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress media pack now your favourite km group newspaper is available in an will place it on our photo sales website so that you can purchase a 5.president nazarbayev is expected to visit belarus end of october fallon : you heard about that australian guy who found a lost three stooges movie ?
the only problem is when he goes to pick it up , he always steps on a rake and it hits him in the face .
obama : i will pay no ransom to end the shutdown kelly mumper lives in rural alabama .
she works in early education , and has three children of her own in the marines .
here & # 8217 ; s what she wrote to me on wednesday . & # 8220 ; we put in an offer to purchase a home this weekend , and it was accepted & # 8230 ; if funding does not go through , our chances of the american dream [ are ] down the drain & # 8230 ; we have worked really hard to get our credit to be acceptable to purchase a home & # 8230 ; if it weren & # 8217 ; t for the direct lending program provided by the usda , we would not qualify to buy the home we found . & # 8221 ; the vice president did not seek to hide the folder .
nor did he share its contents .
joe biden advises women to get a shotgun for protection continue reading if 900,000 federal workers can be furloughed as ' non-essential , ' why employ them ?
gop : an increase in the debt limit must be tied to a decrease in the spending he wants to take the easy way out & # 8212 ; exactly the kind of foolishness that got us here in the first place .
did you know obamacare gives $ ubsidie $ with no proof of need ? 201220142016afghanistanafricaandrew malcolmann romneybill clintonbooksbudgetcaliforniacanadachicagochinacongressc-spandebatesdebtdeficitdemocratic partydnceconomyeducationegyptelectoral mapelectoral mapenergyenvironmentfloridafundraisinggaffesgeorge w. bushgovernorsgunshealthcareherman cainhillary clintonhispanicshollywoodhouse of representativesillegal immigrationimmigrationiowairaniraqisraeljobsjoe biden updatejohn kerryjokesjon huntsmanlibyamediamexicomichelle obamamichiganmitt romneynasanational debtnational defensenational securitynevadanew hampshirenewt gingrichnorth carolinanorth koreaobamaobama job approvalobama jobs billobamacareohiopaul ryanpollsramadanreligionrepublican partyrick perryrick santorumron paulrussiasarah palinscandalssenatesouth carolinaspendingsunday showssupreme courtsyriataxesterrorismtexastextunemploymentunionsvideowashingtonweekly remarkswhateverwhite housewisconsin companies lining up to buy blackberry in bits and pieces sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 27 pm edt a look inside the j.c. penney disney shops in dfw fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt water street project in las colinas readies for construction fri oct 4 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt education is the key that unlocks employment in dallas mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 27 am edt win lunch with ryan newman at outback steakhouse mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt alleged fake deputy has history of impersonations sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt romo has career day in loss to broncos sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt hundreds at uta walk to end alzheimer ’ s sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt korean air jet returns to dfw after problem sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt korean air lines jet returns to dfw after problem sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt bicyclist killed in balch springs crash sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 27 pm edt man arrested for impersonating an officer at galleria dallas sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt wide-open race shaping up for tarrant da sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 27 pm edt ut arlington police end investigation of two rape cases fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt setting an example to be followed by other mps , the nyamagana mp , ezekiah wenje has led the inauguration of a mobile laboratory and other equipment worth 5.9m / - meant to secondary schools in his constituency .
masanja said that the camp seeks to provide skills to youths and enable them to profitably engage in agricultural activities as a way of realising the government ’ s ambitious ’ big results now ’ .
lessons from kenya 's attack by al shabaab na dr bohela lunogelo we need to objectively identify the root cause for the seemingly easy mobilisation of groups such as al-shabaab , and then ask ourselves if there are any lessons to learn for tanzania and other countries in africa .
i personally overheard some youth in a & ldquo ; kijiwe & rdquo ; in mbezi beach near makonde area park listening to their friend who said & ldquo ; he just discovered that all the problems youth were experiencing is due to the mismanagement of this economy by christians , who were entrusted to run strategic institutions by the late mwalimu nyerere ; but betrayed him by stealing and reinvesting the ill gotten wealth in the mansions you see in mbezi beach & rdquo ; .
being one of such ten-cell leaders i have come to discover it is only easy if the area is predominantly a ccm stronghold .
i wish i was responsible to all the ten households in my neighbourhood .
that way i could effectively account for security matters in my area and report to the chair of mtaa or kitongoji .
let us welcome more suggestions on what we can learn from the sad and shocking event in kenya .
dr hoseana bohela lunogelo ( lunogelo @ gmail.com ) is an esrf executive director but the views provided here are personal .
they do not represent esrf as the institution he works .
to someone who has never injected illicit drugs , all syringes may look similar , but recent research out of the us shows differences in design can be “ dramatic ” and may slow the spread of hiv infections .
mitzi parker : flu faq sat oct 5 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt sumter boe has called meeting to discuss sacs sat oct 5 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt divers find boater ’ s body in lake hartwell mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt sheriff ’ s office to auction off firearms mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt gbi investigates waycross police shooting mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt 10-year old hospitalized after being hit by car sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt julie ’ s zombie blooper sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 10 am edt investigators looking for car that hit 10-year old sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt one dead after car wreck in evans sat oct 5 , 2013 9 : 10 pm edt coming up on wjbf news channel 6 at 11 sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 10 pm edt car hits 10-year-old child on meadowbrook drive sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt cuprowski comes aboard as ema director sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 10 am edt incumbent and new faces run for adairsville ward 3 sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 10 am edt tim chitwood : wake up and wander to the bathroom sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt inquirer : vacant lot too expensive to sell sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt dimon kendrick-holmes : snakebit dog prompts tough decision sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt boe will appoint new member sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 10 am edt overpass will be closed for a while friday thu oct 3 , 2013 7 : 10 pm edt a q & a with the spokeswoman of the american cancer society & x92 ; s macon chapter mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt furloughed civilians at robins to return to work mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt macon company cleans for cancer patients at no charge mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt late bibb educator to be honored at fire prevention kickoff mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt ocmulgee river cleanup coming up saturday morning mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt the pack ’ s oldest cheerleader sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt patriots day at pathways sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt van brimmer : to film or not to film , that is the question mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt picnic in the park celebrates the arts mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 10 am edt ’ pink rain ’ falls at northside church sat oct 5 , 2013 11 : 10 pm edt sloppy charlton overcomes turner sat oct 5 , 2013 9 : 10 pm edt 32nd honey bee festival may be biggest yet sun oct 6 , 2013 1 : 10 pm edt university gears up for red and black day fri oct 4 , 2013 1 : 10 pm edt it 's really no surprise -- the one and only sickness doctors at st. vincent are warning you about is the flu -- and the symptoms like coughs and ear aches if you would like to sign up for the bse reminder , click here .
jadeveon clowney won 't be the last college football player to hang up his cleats ... charleston city papersteve spurrier tries to clarify his comments on jadeveon clowneylos angeles timessee all 410 sourcesrelated jadeveon clowney alex ovechkin named first star of the weekbaltimore sportsreport.comthree stars of the weektoo many men on the sitein depth : through games of sunday , october 6 , 2013san francisco chroniclesee all 28 sourcesrelated alexander ovechkin return to the home page.a change of regime | cadran politic there is a strong rejection of how tra ­ ian băsescu is doing politics .
emil boc ’ s replacement would have worked , if the new prime minister had been a radical change and if he had been a leader who knows what he must do and how .
not the case here .
traian băsescu himself made sure to set the length of the leash from the very beginning .
a number of unprovoked errors followed , and the mru project shrank before it had a chance to grow .
apparently traian băsescu still plans to rely on this project , although not even the democrats had welcomed it .
this has dispelled the myth of the president ’ s invincibility and of traian bă ­ sescu as the saviour .
no one is wai ­ ting for a solution from the president any longer .
it is the second băsescu government dismissed by parliament , which proves that democracy cannot be fooled forever , as much of a player as the president may be .
three years have passed since traian băsescu ignored a parliamentary majority and imposed two minority governments backed by the political migrants who have “ defected ” once again today .
beyond the price paid by romania , which is hard to quantify , the other price is quite clear : the president has become an irrelevant politician , and pd-l – on the verge of dismantling and disappearing as a party .
the democratic union of ethnic hun ­ garians in romania ( udmr ) made a huge mistake , not so much by betraying the johannis project , but by promoting a reverse apartheid , i.e. struggling for the isolation and encla ­ visation of the hungarian minority so as to be able to control it .
i said it back in 2007 : an ethnic party is a mistake and the hungarian problem ( and that of the other minorities ) must be taken over by the romanian parties .
the recent issue of the târgu mureş univer ­ sity is the best example of political stupidity , a manoeuvre that damages the hungarians as well as everyone else .
« previousun adevărat român & # 8211 ; interviu cu asr prinţul paul al româniei © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress monday oct 7 , 2013 kilimanjaro regional commissioner leonidas gama called on the ’ wananchi ’ in areas to be visited by vice-president to show up and witness the launch of the development projects .
fix it : drainage ditch hole in hockessin sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 09 pm edt powerball jackpot climbs to $ 108 million sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 09 am edt a gold alert issued for a newark man sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 09 pm edt seaford bicyclist critically injured in car crash sun oct 6 , 2013 5 : 09 pm edt millsboro man dies in bethany crash sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 09 am edt gas prices continue to fall sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 09 am edt over 50 exhibitors for arusha international gemstone fair na the guardian reporter the cost of preparing the showcasing event is estimated to be 450m / - but in turn it is expected to bring in more than 4bn / - as it did last year .
the secretary of the fair ’ s preparatory committee , eng benjamini mchwampaka told reporters over the weekend , that everything was on the right track and they had started allocating exhibitors to their slots .
as such , he called on africa ’ s mining dealers and brokers to take advantage of the opportunity by participating in the event .
for all foreigners buying houses in thailand and property .
ask us for free the best way to buy for your circumstances .
you will not be disappointed .
bahanuzi scores one league goal in a year na correspondent the teams ended the match in 1-1 draw as bahanuzi cancelled an early strike by simba ’ s amri kiemba beating ghanaian goalkeeper yaw berko .
poor scoring ability is believed to be one of the reasons that made the national soccer team coach kim poulsen to lose interest in the player .
bahanuzi won the national team ’ s call during the team ’ s visit to botswana and he failed to make an impact .
last season mtibwa sugar claimed a total of ten points from simba and yanga as the team won all legs against simba and won home leg against yanga before drawing the return leg in dares salaam . • unhcr step up assistance to idps in ouham pende despite unstable security situation world + 16 others rapport d ’ activité sur l ’ action humanitaire d ’ urgence en 2012 la france aide chaque année de nombreux pays en difficulté .
en 2012 , les populations syriennes , palestiniennes et maliennes ont été les principaux bénéficiaires de son aide .
l ’ action humanitaire d ’ état fait partie intégrante de l ’ action diplomatique de la france .
elle est guidée par les principes fondamentaux d ’ humanité , d ’ impartialité , d ’ indépendance et de neutralité définis par le droit international humanitaire .
congo l ’ assemblée nationale appelée à se préoccuper du dossier des sinistrés du 4 mars la deuxième chambre du parlementcongolais tiendra , le 15 octobre prochain , sa session budgétaire exercice 2014 .
pour le député de la deuxième circonscription électorale de talangaï ( 6ème arrondissement de brazzaville ) et président du mouvement pour la démocratie et le progrès ( mdp ) , jean-claude ibovi , aucun prétexte ne devra plus être évoqué quant à l ’ inscription , dans les lignes budgétaires , du dossier de la reconstruction des maisons détruites lors des explosions du camp du régiment blindé de mpila , le 4 mars 2012 .
democratic republic of the congo + 1 other mbandaka : les rapatriés du congo-brazzaville se plaignent de leur prise en charge les congolais de l ’ equateur rapatriés du congo-brazzaville se plaignent de bénéficier dune prise en charge insuffisante à mbandaka , leur lieu de transit avant de rentrer dans leurs milieux d ’ origine .
ils ont affirmé vendredi 27 septembre que les familles qui les accueillent à mbandaka sont elles mêmes modestes .
selon eux , le haut commissariat pour les réfugiés ( hcr ) na pas apporté toute l ’ aide promise exceptée la scolarisation des enfants .
ils demandent d ’ être acheminé vers leurs destinations finales à bolomba , basankusu et lisala .  il est estimé que 288 000 personnes se sont déplacées à l ’ intérieur et hors de la rca depuis le début du conflit de décembre 2012  les prix mondiaux des denrées alimentaires ont baissé de 7 points par rapport à 2012 , mais ils sont en hausse dans la région  menace d ’ une crise alimentaire en rca où près de 40 pour cent de la population a besoin d 'une aide alimentaire et environ 11 pour cent est vulnérable à une crise alimentaire democratic republic of the congo + 1 other le hcr aide plus de 100 000 réfugiés à rentrer au nord de la rdc buburu , république démocratique du congo , 3 septembre ( hcr ) – des bateaux transportant plus de 350 réfugiés ont traversé la rivière oubangui vers la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) mardi , portant ainsi à plus de 100 000 le nombre total des personnes rapatriées depuis le congo dans le cadre d 'un programme du hcr pour le rapatriement .
congo drame de mpila : le gouvernement envisage un dialogue citoyen sur la reconstruction des quartiers le maire du cinquième arrondissement ( ouenzé ) marcel nganongo et son homologue du sixième arrondissement privat frédéric ndéké ont annoncé le 24 août dernier à brazzaville , l ’ ouverture dans les tout prochains jours d ’ un dialogue citoyen entre le gouvernement et les sinistrés du drame du 4 mars 2012 , en vue de la reconstruction des maisons complètement détruites .
whether you are new to ibd or a long-term subscriber , our new training sessions are a must !
you 'll get a quick routine for using ibd , tips on key features , and more !
fake veta certificates flood the job market - report na malela kassim he was speaking yesterday in dar es salaam during the unveiling of the report findings when he made it clear that veta is not the only education institute to suffer the taint but according to the report , most all the certificates from higher learning institutions in the country are very easy to forge .
why switzerland has some of the happiest , healthiest citizens in the world11 when i was growing up in massachusetts , my dad loved to work on cars .
every time he headed out to the driveway , i was right there with him .
one weekend , when i was 10 or so , he told me we were off to fix a transmission .
" i can 't do that , " i said .
he replied without a pause , " people do it every day .
you can certainly do it once . "
that straightforward advice -- and the fact that we did fix the transmission -- stuck with me .
my year using aereo : how a dime-sized antenna met my tv needs nextlesson is a web app where teachers and parents can get access to pre-designed lesson plans or create their own .
it wasn 't created by a 20-year-old to jump on the next big trend .
it was created by a couple of dads using the ideas and techniques of high tech to solve a real problem in education .
how to prevent hunger in upcoming decades ?
try precision agriculture how to stop your old facebook statuses from haunting you a ridiculously easy way to see if your batteries are duds gus wenner runs rollingstone.com ; his father gave him the job .
but jann wenner , the magazine ’ s co-founder and publisher , was quick to assure critics of the appointment process that his son is terribly talented and had to prove himself before being given the reins .
the new head of the anticorruption agency eacc , mumo matemu , has hit against its deputy chair , esther keino , who takes a dim view of his appointment . ( ... )
president uhuru kenyatta wants to reward his predecessor mwai kibaki for the help he gave him in his rise to power . ( ... )
the comptroller of the presidency , the former permanent secretary lawrence lenayapa , hasn ’ t not got his bearings . ( ... )
barely had makau mutuataken up his new job as columnist on the sunday standard , ( ... )
september 30 , 2013 willemstad , curacao -- the first gay pride event in curacao has been cancelled .
the curacao government had set additional conditions in the granting of the permit for the event on the island , which was supposed to be held in downtown punda , the old town of willemstad , on saturday .
curacao clean up picks up half million kilos of trash june 10 , 2013 willemstad , curacao -- a new government was installed in curacao on friday , when governor adel van der pluijm-vrede swore in ten new ministers who will serve the rest of the coalition ’ s four year term .
as anticipated , ivar asjes is curacao ’ s new prime minister .
shabaab say no senior official was in house raided by u.s. forces he named the new faces in the team as innocent sammi of mpo africa pool club , patrick nyangusi , geoffrey swai and fred steven both of top land pool team and festo yohana of mashuja pool team .
other players in the squad are charles venus and abdulla hussein of mpo africa , mohamed iddi of atlantic pool club , omari akida of top land and the only lady rosemary deus of mzinga club .
permanent diaconatecalled to servehave you ever had a sense that you might be called to serve god through the blessings you have received ?
maybe you have sensed a call to assist our priests in the daily work of parish ministry .
maybe you have become acutely aware of the many injustices facing god 's people in the world , and you feel a call to try to make a difference .
all christians are called to serve , but perhaps you have felt a desire to move closer to god and his church in order to serve others in a new and purposeful way .
is god calling you to be a permanent deacon ?
verdi is ready to call a strike when it hurts amazon the most and only " serious negotiations " on the part of the company would avert a walkout , he was quoted as saying. which job site ?
as you know , there are millions of " job sites " around the world on any given day .
" let me issue him a friendly challenge , " schumer responded .
" put it on the floor monday or tuesday .
i would bet there are the votes to pass it . "
the democratic senator said his party can 't give in to a " hostage taking " like the one the republican party presented .
from the founding of this country we have abided by a single profound principle of democracy .
one individual , one vote .
if the speaker claims he does not have the votes to proceed , let him show that to the court of public opinion .
move forward with a vote mr. speaker , put it out there for us all to judge the merits of your claim .
that way we can all be sure who walked us to the edge , and then shoved us over , without so much as a kiss on the cheek .
cr with aca to be implemented as written ... period ... barry if want to change it ... send it to congress for changes ..
huftonpufton : cr with aca to be implemented as written ... period ... barry if want just what is a " mainstream republican " at this point ?
as the republican party works to make unwelcome all moderates , the mainstream of the republican party has shifted far right .
chuck schumer the new york germ .
you can 't supersize it .
i thought he was talking to weiner .
maybe he and ruth ginsberg can date .
the sky is falling the sky is falling ! ! ! ! ! !
the us would be well on its way of getting stronger if they default and start over . the only catch is you need a president that is actually competent , not obama ! ! !
idiopathic to state : " default and start over . "
it is obvious you don 't understand default . you go ahead and default on your mortgage , car loan , credit card , utilities and if you can get out from under the crush , let us on how well you 're doing on the " start over . "
time to remove mr. boehner from the helm of his partys ship .
it is obvious he cannot steer his ship away from the cliffs .
he needs to be removed by government policy of being unfit to serve the people and the government .
he truly reflects his party , so even if you knocked him out of the speaker-ship , you would end up with a similar mess. for people both inside and outside of our borders .
what are also undeniable are these are manageable risks , which can be handling by directing the us treasury orchestrating this suicide mission for nakedlypartisanadvantage are setting new standards for irresponsibility one killed , one injured in pedestrian crash on i-540 sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 22 am edt fall ’ s biggest threat ?
wildfire sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 28 pm edt tennessee mayor asks to reopen parts of smoky mountains sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 28 pm edt a true story about a woman who risked everything to be who she wanted to be sun oct 6 , 2013 5 : 28 pm edt tenn. mayor asks to reopen parts of smoky mountains sun oct 6 , 2013 5 : 28 pm edt norfolk firefighter injured sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 28 am edt prolonged shutdown may jeopardize assistance programs , philanthropies fri oct 4 , 2013 11 : 28 pm edt portsmouth police say suspicious death is now a homicide sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 28 pm edt commissaries in hampton roads to reopen sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 28 pm edt furloughed workers seek out food pantry for assistance fri oct 4 , 2013 7 : 28 pm edt feds eye n.c. voter measures mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt antiques a rather surprising comeback for franklin mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt richmond man killed in dc metro accident mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 28 am edt woman accused of taking an axe to her son in court monday morning mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 28 am edt virginia has plenty of pumpkins to carve mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 28 am edt crews on scene of fire in the 3100 block courtland road sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 28 pm edt 2 die in car vs. motorcycle collision in va . sun oct 6 , 2013 5 : 28 pm edt culpeper prosecutor not sorry for corrupt remark sun oct 6 , 2013 1 : 28 pm edt pentagon touts capture of al qaeda leader sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 28 am edt victor ponta : știu că sunt patru benchmarks-uri la mcv , niciunul nu privește pactul de coabitare premierul victor ponta a declarat , luni , la antena 3 , că niciunul dintre cele patru benchmarks-uri privind mcv-ul pentru românia nu privește acordul de cooperare instituțională cu președintele traian băsescu , urmare a afirmațiilor șefului statului potrivit cărora puncte din pactul de coabitare ar fi parte din mecanismul de cooperare și verificare pe justiție .
ministrul francez de interne discută despre romi cu omologul său român / afp / ponta : băsescu și-a bătut recordurile de ipocrizie prin declarațiile despre discriminarea audiovizualului ponta : facem un cont unic la trezorerie pentru amenzile aplicate de poliția rutieră ponta : demisia lui vosganian din funcția de ministru este o decizie politică pe care o apreciez victor ponta : da , am acceptat demisia din executiv a ministrului economiei , varujan vosganian update traian băsescu : pactul de coabitare a fost încălcat consistent de premier ' sinucidere virtuală ' în masă : milioane de utilizatori pleacă de pe facebook jurnalist britanic : armata siriană a aflat de la televizor despre atacul chimic de lângă damasc anrm : nu există alte elemente ce pot fi exploatate la roșia montană , în afară de aur și argint ponta : respingerea proiectului roșia montană nu este o catastrofă ; mesajul că străinii sunt răi - greșit daciana sârbu : să vorbim cu mândrie despre românia și să îi sancționăm pe cei care ne denigrează în pe corespondență petru luhan cere ce să trateze comercializarea sucurilor carbogazoase în regim similar cu cea a țigărilor și băuturilor alcoolice corespondență corina crețu : în franța se încearcă găsirea altui pretext pentru amânarea unei decizii privind schengen victor ponta : la cererea președintelui i-am desemnat pe miniștrii de externe și al justiției să poarte discuții cu consilieri ai săi majoritatea țărilor europene sunt favorabile constituirii unui parchet european pentru a urmări fraudarea bugetului comunitar , ce provoacă pierderi anuale de circa 500 de milioane de euro , transmite luni ...
băsescu : presimt că privatizarea cfr marfă va fi anchetată de dna președintele traian băsescu a afirmat luni că oricine privește la privatizarea cfr marfă poate concluziona că aceasta va face la un moment dat obiectul unei anchete a dna .
corespondență cazanciuc : susținem ideea ca cetățenii să poată depune sesizări în țările lor împotriva utilizării abuzive a datelor personale corespondentul agerpres , florin ștefan , transmite : românia a susținut luni , în consiliul justiție și afaceri interne , ideea unui ghișeu unic , o formulă prin care cetățenii pot depune în țările în care ...
vicepreședintele argentinian amado boudou a preluat luni prerogativele prezidențiale pe perioada repausului recomandat de medici președintelui , cristina fernandez , care a suferit o leziune cerebrovascular ...
băsescu : sper ca avocatul poporului să atace la ccr oug privind codul de insolvență președintele traian băsescu și-a exprimat speranța , luni , că oug privind codul de insolvență va fi atacată de avocatul poporului la curtea constituțională a româniei , susținând că unele prevederi din acest ...
update tenis de masă : echipa feminină a româniei a câștigat medaliile de argint la europenele din austria echipa feminină de tenis de masă a româniei a câștigat medaliile de argint la campionatele europene de la schwechat ( austria ) , după ce a fost învinsă luni de germania cu scorul de 3-1 în finală .
robert cazanciuc a susținut la reuniunea jai de la luxemburg importanța înființării parchetului european ministrul justiției , robert cazanciuc , a participat la lucrările consiliului justiție și afaceri interne , care au avut loc luni la luxemburg , în cadrul reuniunii oficialul român susținând necesitatea continu ...
nicolae vlad , ucigașul studentei japoneze , a fost condamnat definitiv la închisoare pe viață , luni , de magistrații înaltei curți de casație și justiție , el fiind acuzat de săvârșirea a trei crime și șapte ...
grecia : fostul ministru akis tsohatzopoulos condamnat la 20 de ani de închisoare pentru spălare de bani fostul ministru grec al apărării akis tsohatzopoulos / socialist / a fost condamnat luni la 20 de ani de închisoare cu executare pentru spălare de bani în cadrul unui contract de armamente , condamnare ce ...
antonescu : afirmația lui traian băsescu privind mcv , un tip de amenințare nepotrivit președintele senatului , crin antonescu , a comentat afirmația președintelui traian băsescu potrivit căreia votul dat luni în senat privind cazul liberalului varujan vosganian se va reflecta negativ în viitorul ...
ai filmat sau fotografiat un eveniment ieșit din comun ?
noi îți publicăm știrea .
fiți la curent cu tot ceea ce se întâmplă important în românia și în lume .
bucureştenii cumpără cea mai scumpă benzină , iar cea mai ieftină se găseşte în moldova cea mai scumpă benzină din românia se găseşte în bucureşti şi judeţul ilfov , în timp ce locuitorii din zona moldovei beneficiază de cele mai mici preţuri la carburanţi , potrivit unei analize realizate ...
' noul drum al mătăsii ' trece , cel puţin teoretic , şi pe la bucureşti lemnul recoltat din pădurile româniei a depăşit 19 milioane mc în 2012 , un maxim al ultimilor 23 de ani ( analiză ) fă un exerciţiu : cum ar fi să observi că ţi-au dispărut complet sentimentele de vinovăţie , ruşine , regret ?
cum crezi că ar fi viaţa ta fără conştiinţă , fără niciun soi de remuşcare ?
cum îţi vei trăi via ...
a murit dimitrie a. sturdza-miclăușanu , istoric și om politic , președinte al pnl ( 1892-1908 ) . ( n .
10 mart .
1833 ) dobrogea , delta dunării și insula șerpilor intră , oficial , în componența româniei .
( 8 / 20 oct 1878 ) armata română victorioasă își face intrarea triumfală în bucurești pe podul mogoșoaiei , care de atunci poartă numele de calea victoriei .
( 8 / 20 oct 1878 ) thriller-ul spațial " gravity " , cu sandra bullock și george clooney în rolurile principale , a dominat topul încasărilor la sfârșitul săptămânii trecute , reușind să stabilească un nou record de boxoffice ...
negociatorii poliției capitalei : viața bate filmul ; au fost oameni care au amenințat că se sinucid și de pe arcul de triumf interviu daniel constantin : agricultura poate să salveze în acest an indicatorii macroeconomici ai româniei conținutul acestui site este proprietatea agenției naționale de presă agerpres .
este interzisă republicarea sau redistribuirea conținutului fără menționarea sursei . monday oct 7 , 2013 chadema chief whip tundu lissu addresses press conference in dar es salaam yesterday .
( photo : selemani mpochi ) lissu , the member of parliament for iramba-east , accused the ruling chama cha mapinduzi of monopolising the creation of the new constitution . & ldquo ; for instance , shivyawata , said that they did not propose al shayma kweigir to represent them in the commission , yet kweigir was the one the president appointed to represent shivyawata , & rdquo ; lisu said. buffet breakfast for 110 baht all you can eat and i mean it and also buffet dinner all you can eat for 180 rd ) near soi town in town .
this is the foodmarket of pattaya where you can have popular with expats and those who want to buy their groceries then sit down for just hit " lets ride " & see more pattaya bike week pics [ bang saen bike week 2008 ] [ chiangmai bike week dec 2008 ] [ pattaya useful tel numbers ] [ pattaya best restaurants & eating ] [ pattaya bars ] [ pattaya jet ski hire ] [ pattaya hire cars / bikes ] [ pattaya car / motorcycle reg office ] [ fishing news ] [ check out bang saen ] see stateline infographic : how many jobs did your state create ?
new york expanded its film tax credit to include live television shows , dubbed the “ jimmy fallon tax credit , ” to attract the new host of nbc ’ s “ the tonight show ” to relocate from california to the big apple .
maryland tripled the value of its film tax credit after it lured hbo ’ s “ veep ” and netflix ’ s “ house of cards ” to the state .
worried that colorado was giving too many tax breaks to big oil and gas companies , lawmakers there overhauled the state 's " enterprise zone " program .
the new law caps the amount of income tax credits that can go to large corporations " who certainly don ’ t need the tax credit , " said house majority leader dickey lee hullinghorst , a democrat .
part of the money saved by changing the tax credit program will be used as seed money for emerging bioscience industries . ’ we ’ re here mostly for the dancing ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 13 am edt council candidates weigh in on city ’ s issues sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 13 am edt new rules for iowa ’ s automated speed cameras ?
sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 13 pm edt youth shelter addition needs des moines council ’ s ok mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt meetings set on enrollment change at des moines ’ application-only schools mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt reader ’ s watchdog : did des moines go too far in limiting used car lots ?
mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt i think : the cyclones game that started rhoads ranting mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 13 am edt look-a-likes : mike woodley vs .
ned yost mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 13 am edt soundoff sendoff : remix to the isu game mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 13 am edt ottumwa bowlers join to fight breast cancer mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt don ’ t blame me for the shutdown , lawmakers plead sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 13 pm edt 1105 project has ’ only just begun ’ mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt bruegger ’ s bagels bounces back mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt short ’ s to donate portion of proceeds wed . mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt maldives pro-opposition tv station set on fire mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 13 am edt here ’ s how to help siouxland tornado victims sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 13 pm edt siouxland aid organizations responding to storm-ravaged communities sat oct 5 , 2013 4 : 13 pm edt • sweden and russia are the largest donors to the region “ the bill in the legislature did give the commissioner ( david bernhardt ) the purview to raise the limits , ” ted talbot said .
“ if he saw fit , he could conduct the traffic study , and upon the results of that , he would decide if it ’ s prudent . ”
contact ussubscribecustomer servicesadvertise with htr mediacareers with gannettbusiness opportunity-delivery routesour commitmentmanage my subscriptionactivate your subscriptionabout us wisconsin badgersvarsitywisconsin outdoor funclubhouse livegridiron insiderpackersgameday live ! submit a sports photo it didn 't take long for mel tillis to realize that a speech impediment wasn 't an impediment after ... - 1 : 35 pm if you are interested in working for an innovative media company , you can learn more by visiting : newsobituariesschoolsnationalrecordsdataminespecial sectionsarchiveopinionsubmit a lettersportswisconsin badgersvarsitywisconsin outdoor funclubhouse livegridiron insiderpackersgameday live ! submit a sports photovideosvideo librarybusinessliving here 2012 / 2013photosvideophoto galleriesorder photo reprintsreader photos / submit a photoshare photoslife & stylemilestonesmy cozi calendarday trip videos2013 menu guidemovieshealthentertainment2013 menu guidemy cozi calendarcalendar events helpcontact ussubscribecustomer servicesadvertise with htr mediacareers with gannettbusiness opportunity-delivery routesour commitmentmanage my subscriptionactivate your subscriptionabout us humana to market obamacare coverage in cvs pharmacies fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 14 pm edt where are the poorest bank branches in louisville ?
find out here fri oct 4 , 2013 2 : 14 pm edt flood cleanup tips sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 14 pm edt age may hamper ability to make sound financial decisions sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 14 am edt don ’ t wait to apply , if you ’ re looking for holiday work sat oct 5 , 2013 6 : 14 pm edt viva las vegas nightclubs : many sin city patrons prefer glitzy clubbing to wagering at casinos sat oct 5 , 2013 06 : 14 am edt stocks rise on hope dc bickering will end sat oct 5 , 2013 06 : 14 am edt fire at downtown hyatt handled quickly by lfd thu oct 3 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt terms of service mon dec 26 , 2011 10 : 56 am est salvation army taking applications for ’ bell ringers ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 14 pm edt emergency shelters set up at atherton high school sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 14 am edt emergency shelter set up at atherton high school sun oct 6 , 2013 04 : 14 am edt harvest homecoming kicks off in new albany sat oct 5 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt the summer saw major developments at australia ’ s elemental minerals ltd .
after being the object of a takeover bid by the asian group dingyi - which has yet to be approved by the hong ( ... )
congo-b ’ s state-owned oil company and ivory coast ’ s pertroci are now sole owners of the mbk fields discovered by elf in the 1980s . ( ... )
a spotlight has turned seriously at last on congo-b ’ s potash sector .
the country has huge resources of the mineral used in manufacturing fertilizer but up to now no industrial-scale ( ... )
a dispute has broken out over exploration permits for iron ore at okanabora and ( ... )
obama 's absence in apec a missed opportunity : najibnew straits timesnajib : malaysia , australia to resolve asylum – seeker problemthe malay mail onlinesee all 21 sourcesrelated najib razak that 's awesome ! ! ! ! ! !
keep up the good work and the donations .
we all need to help others and unite in the spirit of givig to those without. analysts say could boost the chance of an election upset in the to a 16-week high on monday as the budget standoff in the united the political impasse in washington over the u.s. budget has site map | terms of use | privacy statement | copyright & trademark notice | eeosmalltownpapers - the columbia star , columbia south carolinapolitică internă | cadran politic “ racordarea macrosistemelor ” & # 8211 ; acesta este mesajul convenabil când încercăm să explicăm pe înţelesul cetăţenilor construcţia europeană .
şi cum să nu fie aşa , când doar la bruxelles 100.000 de oameni se află în capitala belgiei fiindcă bruxelles-ul este şi “ capitala de facto a europei ” .
specificul bruxelles-ului constă în conglomeratul instituţiilor europene şi a ...
românia – china : de la o agendă de bune intenţii la rezultate concrete ?
la început de miez de vară , agenda premierului româniei , victor ponta , a inclus un turneu asiatic , în cursul căruia a avut numeroase întâlniri bilaterale printre care cele mai semnificative fiind cele cu omologul său chinez & # 8211 ; li keqiang , cu şeful guvernului din hong kong & # 8211 ; leung chun-ying şi chiar cu noul preşedinte al chinei , xi jinping .
ecuaţia puterii a fost întotdeauna una foarte complicată în românia .
s-ar putea spune , pe bună dreptate , că am început cu stângul .
teroarea comunistă a dus , conform principiului acţiunii şi reacţiunii din fizică , la o destindere a resorturilor democratice care a produs jdemii de mişcări politice şi haos .
pe de altă parte , după 45 de ani de educaţie privind socialismul multilateral ...
usl îşi vede visul cu ochii .
ceilalţi luptă pentru a căpăta statutul de partide stabilitatea politico-socială .
o sintagmă care a devenit o obsesie naţională .
în condiţiile în care marea majoritate a românilor se consideră jignită de presupunerea că nu s-ar pricepe la politică , iar o altă parte rosteşte cu emfază , sentenţios , „ nu mă pricep , nu mă interesează ” , stabilitatea politico-socială străbate ca un coşmar somnul care a cuprins civismul românesc ....
usl , teatrul disensiunilor .
despre cei obligaţi să susţină unitatea puterii am avut impresia că lucrările comisiei parlamentare pentru modificarea constituţiei vor fi un fel de simpozion ştiinţific pe detalii tehnice , ştiţi dumneavoastră , ceva în genul echipei de instalatori care vin şi fac să nu-ţi mai curgă robinetul .
nu înţelegi prea bine ce meşteresc acolo , dar în final e ok , îţi convine .
mă bucur că nu e aşa , că m-am înşelat .
s-a încheiat , previzibil , și congresul pd-l , care a consfințit despărțirea de traian băsescu .
ca un copil , acesta s-a ofticat și și-a luat jucăriile certându-i pe cei care n-au mai vrut să se joace cu el .
dintr-o dată , pd-l nu mai era un partid democrat , ci tributar fesenismului .
cât l-a servit cu credință fusese bun .
până la urmă , este și asta o formă de recunoaștere a eșecului ...
ne pasă de ţara noastră , chiar mai mult decât credem .
ne interesează ce imagine are românia , oriunde ne-am afla .
nu suntem indiferenţi la criticile adresate nouă , românilor , şi urmărim cu mare interes performanţele liderilor aleşi pentru a conduce destinele plaiurilor mioritice .
tema regionalizării administrative domină de ceva vreme agenda publică în materie de reformă administrativă .
din punct de vedere politic pare un moment propice , atât timp cât udmr nu este la guvernare şi riscul confundării regionalizării cu regionalismul , este limitat .
populaţia româniei este concentrată în proporţie de 44,8 % în mediul rural .
însă , dacă avem în vedere că 13 oraşe au mai puţin de 5.000 de locuitori , 60 de oraşe au până în 10.000 de locuitori , multe oraşe şi municipii au în componenţă sate , iar multe nu îndeplinesc condiţiile minimale impuse de legislație pentru statutul de oraş sau municipiu , ...
acum câţiva ani am hotărât să „ joc politic ” , iar cei care mă cunosc ştiu că nu glumesc cu astfel de vorbe !
m-am implicat în campania electorala din noiembrie 2008 , sprijinind candidaturile lui marian popescu şi marian mocanu pe posturile alocate celor din diaspora !
mă bucur să constat că cel care ne-a stat alături atunci , philip cordery , secretarul general al partidului socialiştilor ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpresscontact | cadran politic tennessee now allows edtpa to be used as a substitute for a standardized test of teaching practice .
“ i feel like the ( assessment ) showed more of who i was as a teacher or hopeful teacher , ” whitehouse said .
govt : no budging on excess cargo weight move na malela kassim & ldquo ; the agreement made in 2006 has been overtaken by events and cannot be applicable any more because there is no more reason for us to go on tolerating overloaded cargo at our weighbridges , & rdquo ; argued ntemo .
this paper has recently noticed an unusually big number of trucks lined up at some weighbridges in different parts of the country , sometimes the queues up to two kilometres long , apparently because of snail ’ s pace at which they are cleared .
mikese weighbridge in morogoro region is especially notorious .
young adult readers will now be able to get a teen ’ s take on new books by logging on to the missourian ’ s book blog , mo books .
on the blog they can access reviews by elizabeth westo hearing on ameren ’ s proposed coal ash landfill in labadie is delayed how frequently do you vote in local , state , and federal elections ?
welling were held to a draw by 10-man barnet in the skrill premier on saturday .
callum fowler struck the equalising goal for invicta dynamos on sunday night against chelmsford chieftains .
relive all the action from another exciting instalment of kent football match centre as gillingham sought to launch a winning run at home to mk dons .
‘ eco ballast ’ arrives for start of work on oxford-bicester line worried about the survival of the nidaa tounes party ( its “ destourian ” and “ leftist ” wings constantly clash ) , the movement ’ s president , beji caid essebsi has taken it upon himself ( ... )
the worsening security situation in tunisia was the focus of a top secret meeting between algerian , british and us intelligence officers at the headquarters of the département du renseignement ( ... )
a former senior executivemarathon oil in tunisia between 1983-96 .
mongi haffouz ( ... )
the northern cross - schoolsend of school year testing is done — now what ?
the last pile of snow has melted on the playground , the sun feels powerfully warm , and our students have put away school vests and sweatshirts .
it is the end of another school year at st. joseph ’ s school .
school taxes expected to rise in appleton sat oct 5 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt nature ’ s fireworks : the spectacle of fall color is under way lawmaker urges bills to combat heroin use sat oct 5 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt mexican dinner serves up a whole enchilada sat oct 5 , 2013 12 : 20 pm edt portage considers bow hunt in city sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 20 pm edt prairie view to celebrate reopening sun aug 25 , 2013 10 : 20 am edt government ’ s work stacking up a week into shutdown mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 20 am edt man wanted in lincoln county sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt official : woman killed in dc chase was delusional sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt 2 men injured in ashwaubenon crash mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt grandparents who travel to care for grandchildren are a growing trend mon jul 29 , 2013 6 : 20 pm edt hometown history : grover cleveland in la crosse in 1887 mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt in the spirit : two views on separating church and state sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 20 pm edt police id man who died in motorcycle crash thu oct 3 , 2013 8 : 20 pm edt massages at senior health fair mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt tickets available for annual fundraiser for shirley ’ s house of hope mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt a natural combo : organic farming and nudism sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt wisconsin lawmakers cool to dnr pet deer plan sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 20 pm edt photo : top of the lighthouse mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 20 am edt pulaski man charged with 11th owi offense wed aug 14 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt health can be factor in county planning wed aug 14 , 2013 02 : 20 am edt christian women ’ s group to meet mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt kat trio to perform at uwsp mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt ny probes rights sold to ’ world trade center ’ mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt ap impact : tribes mishandle funds , go unpunished mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 20 am edt the latest news aggregated from top sources around the web artist to kick off manatee technical institute ’ s new discussion series mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt grass is bluer at creekside festival sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt town hall meeting set in flagler sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt desantis in eye of political storm sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 10 am edt dunbar high reboots image as a top tech school mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt cape man brings gun in carry-on luggage sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt man , 80 , killed by car as he tries to catch bus in margate mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt weston man killed in rollover wreck sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt bitten by rattler , ’ i thought it was all over ’ fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt 9-year-old boy sneaks on flight to las vegas video mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt alachua county ’ s ’ foster grandparents ’ on hold due to government shutdown sat oct 5 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt newberry woman whose salsa won a moe ’ s contest now available in restaurants mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt one suspect held in armed robbery of checkers mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt lane ranger : traffic at p.k. yonge continues to frustrate sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt cloudy weather to give way to sunshine later in week sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt want a great corporate culture ?
this jacksonville firm has one of the best fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt is your business in northeast floridas highest crime area ?
fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt family : waycross man killed in police shooting not armed mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt westside man dies in motorcycle crash sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt jta bus driver found dead on the westside sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt and the bands play on sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 10 am edt students charged in stun gun incident in locker room sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 10 am edt habitat to show off village for ’ voluntourists ’ sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 10 am edt heroes never to be forgotten sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 10 am edt how to master comparison shopping mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 10 am edt lockdown lifted at university of miami mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt 1 dead in lauderhill house fire : lfr sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt community volunteer alesia mogul dies sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt bp trial to focus on scientists ’ spill estimates mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt broward man found passed out in someone else ’ s van in the keys tue oct 1 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt almost all local dod civilians to return to work sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt defuniak springs airport to expand sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt in asia , prepare for the post-superpower era mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt two men arrested after meth lab bust mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt emt ’ s on vacation in pcb save drowning man mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt destin shark bite sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt 2 injured in banner plane crash on uf campus in gainesville sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt support arts groups but keep an eye on them mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt armed man robs manatee convenience store mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt ’ gravity ’ soars to top of weekend box office mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt twitter tunes in to tv partnerships ahead of ipo mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt manatee sheriff ’ s office faces allegations of a hostile workplace sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt car chase leads to arrests of sarasota robbery suspects sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt the science behind those wacky bud light superstitious fan ads fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt getting up to speed on linkedin : the entire series fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt refuge house hosts 5k to ’ stop the violence ’ mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt ’ on the road to remember ’ tour honors missing persons mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt steinbrenner students mourn classmate ’ s death sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt fennelly : time to talk is over for ray sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt macdill afb furloughs end after a week mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 10 am edt teen slams into gas station as dad teaches him to drive sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt deputies searching for 80-year-old man sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt baycare revamps leadership fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt fishhawk mermaid forms nonprofit to aid children thu aug 8 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt germans finding a slice of home at heidi ’ s gourmet hut in brandon wed aug 7 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt hammer : bamboozle art display in tampa has spooky theme thu oct 3 , 2013 4 : 11 pm edt loxahatchee child run over by family member sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt « previouscât ar trebui să fie salariul minim şi de ce © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpresscaribbean news now ! : news from guatemala rdc : les combats font des milliers de nouveaux déplacés dans le nord-kivu des hélicoptères de l ’ armée congolaise , les fardc , ont lancé une attaque , mercredi , près du quartier-général des rebelles du m23 .
l ’ information a été confirmée par les deux camps , mais le président du m23 , bertrand bisimwa , dément que ses positions aient été touchées durant l ’ attaque . & rdquo ; il n ’ ont attaqué aucune cible militaire , & bdquo ; dit bisimwa ; & rdquo ; ils n ’ ont attaqué que des maisons et des résidents aux alentours de rumangabo . & bdquo ; des médecins de la localité affirment que plusieurs enfants ont été tués et des maisons détruites .
les victimes seraient au nombre de quatre — trois enfants et un adulte — selon un médecin d ’ un hamuli ) a démenti l ’ information .
une patrouille de l 'armée congolaise à kibati , une patrouille de l 'armée congolaise à kibati , le 22 juillet 2013 la reprise des combats dans le nord-kivu a augmenté le nombre de personnes déplacées soit vers la capitale de la province , goma , soit vers d ’ autres villes ou même vers d ’ autres pays de la région .
ecoutez imane cherif , chargée d ’ information à l ’ agence humanitaire de l ’ onu , ocha , au nord-kivu , nous décrire la situation .
a washington , le département d ’ etat a lancé un appel au rwanda pour qu ’ il cesse tout appui aux rebelles du m23 et fasse le retrait de ses soldats de la république démocratique du congo . & rdquo ; nous croyons qu 'il y a un ensemble de preuves crédibles qui supportent les principales conclusions du rapport de human rights watch , y compris le soutien de hauts responsables rwandais au m23 et la présence de militaires rwandais en rdc .
nous appelons le rwanda à cesser immédiatement tout soutien au m23 , a retirer son personnel militaire de l 'est de la rdc et donner suite à ses engagements au titre de l ’ accord-cadre signé ( entre les pays de la région , & bdquo ; a dit jen psaki , porte-parole du département d ’ etat .
dans un entretien avec le service francophone de la voa , l ’ ambassadeur du rwanda aux etats-unis , mathilde mukantabana , a rejeté la thèse du soutien de kigali au m23 , disant que le rapport de human rights watch est entaché d ’ erreurs et ne exploded in burundi 's capital bujumbura as revellers were ushering in the new of midnight , a grenade exploded in the buyenzi neighbourhood , killing one and in the capital and across the country but two other grenades exploded in the 1.1 if you choose to use nytimes.com ( the “ site ” ) , nyt ’ s mobile sites and applications , any of the features of this site , including but not limited to rss , api , software and other downloads ( collectively , the " nyt services " ) , you will be agreeing to abide by all of the terms and conditions of these terms of service between you and the new york times company ( " nyt " , “ us ” or “ we ” ) .
2.4 the content of the services is owned or licensed to nyt .
certain content is furnished by the associated press and reuters , which will not be liable for any delays , inaccuracies , errors or omissions in any such content , or in the transmission or delivery of all or any part thereof , or for any damages arising therefrom .
3.6 by making a submission , you are consenting to its display and publication on the site and in the services and for related online and offline promotional uses .
6.3 you must be 13 years or older to subscribe to all parts of the services .
6.4 you are responsible for all usage or activity on your nytimes.com account , including use of the account by any third party authorized by you to use your login credentials .
any fraudulent , abusive , or otherwise illegal activity may be grounds for termination of your account , at our sole discretion , and we may refer you to appropriate law enforcement agencies .
8.2 nyt reserves the right to send electronic mail to you for the purpose of informing you of changes or additions to the service . • chaffin selected as office leader for olsson associates in lincoln the tff secretariat has often bragged that preparations for the premiership were complete – that everything was in place ready for the new season to get under way .
at the end of last week i was invited to an event on fundraising to support needy students who are studying at kibasila secondary school .
this event was organized by roots and shoots club at the school .
complaints on operation to get rid of illegal immigrants should be addressed indeed , this is a laudable idea that was the brainchild of the international inspiration tanzania women ’ s task force which met recently at the british council in dar es salaam .
an interesting workshop on auditing issues in tanzania was held in dar es salaam during the last week of august 2013 , and some of us got the opportunity to be participants .
one may as well say it was unique , in the sense that unlike many other professional meetings which normally bring together birds of a feather to professionally flock together , this time around you had a combination of a professional auditors and laymen and women , who for two consecutive days seriously deliberated on auditing matters – in the interests of the general public .
as football federations on the continent get on with the weighty business of improving african football , the need to cherish the past while trying to boldly seize the future is absolutely important .
it is sad to note that despite its great potential , women ’ s football in the country has still yet to take off in a really meaningful and significant way .
roger slack in his article ’ pedactice - the use of multimedia in schools ’ which was published in september , 1999 , comments that the growth of information and communication technology ( ict ) in society is reflected in policies to encourage the use of ict in education and the development of educational multimedia .
the 2013 global corruption barometer report , published annually by transparency international , is now on the bookshelves and online .
for some of us who happened to attend the smart partnership movement meeting held in dar es salaam last week for the first time , the event was an eye opener in a number of ways .
who 'll bell the cat for evasion of tax by multinational companies ?
are we becoming wealthier because nation is doing well economically ?
over the years , a lot of foreign aid has been given to africa but many believe that a great chunk of this aid has been squandered , to the detriment of those people on the continent , who were supposed to be the main beneficiaries of this assistance .
mtu wa kwanza kujitokeza hadharani na kuhoji mamlaka makubwa aliyonayo mkurugenzi wa mashtaka ( dpp ) , alikuwa ni mkurugenzi mkuu wa taasisi ya kuzuia na kupambana na rushwa tanzania ( takukuru ) , dk .
who says the country should go back to analogue broadcasting ?
as they put the finishing touches to their preparations for today ’ s return leg of their caf champions league tie against recreativo de libolo of angola , simba were all too aware that they are under fire at the moment .
how to improve quality of education in the caribbean for the next generation ?
regional cxc examination results to be released in st kitts rival factions in strike underscore the fissures in post-chávez venezuela burundi : un collectif contre la vie chère se monte pour dénoncer de nouvelles taxes burundi : un collectif contre la vie chère se monte pour dénoncer de le gouvernement burundais vient d ’ adopter un projet de budget révisé qui institue de nouvelles taxes , qui vont frapper tous les produits ou presque de la vie courante , et l ’ a envoyé à l ’ assemblé nationale , qui doit l ’ adopter ce mardi 23 juillet .
lundi , plus de 200 personnes ont répondu à l ’ appel lancé par le collectif campagne contre la vie chère au burundi , pour participer à une des dizaines de personnes , des jeunes et des vieux , hommes et femmes , se sont succédé au micro pendant trois heures pour dénoncer la volonté du gouvernement et pour une fois , oubliée la peur d ’ être fichés par les services secrets : les gens n ’ ont pas hésité à décliner leur identité avant d ’ exprimer librement leurs sentiments .
certains ont appelé à la grève générale , d ’ autres au boycott des transports publics ou de la bière , la boisson nationale au burundi . & bdquo ; le pouvoir veut notre mort « , a renchéri rose , la soixantaine .
pacifique , un jeune homme d ’ à peine vingt ans s ’ est attiré un franc succès avec sa référence à la & bdquo ; ça ne peut pas continuer comme ça , car nous n ’ avons plus rien à perdre , s 'est-il exclamé .
comme on l ’ a vu en egypte .
n 'ayons pas peur nous aussi .
le moment est venu pour les burundais de descendre dans la rue .
« l ’ adoption par l ’ assemblée nationale du projet de budget révisé , prévue dans un premier temps ce lundi , a été reportée au 23 juillet .
pacifique nininahazwe , un des leaders du collectif campagne contre la vie chère en appelle aux députés burundais . & bdquo ; je demande aux députés d ’ écouter le message de la population , qui se dit excédée , et qui indique que si une telle mesure était adoptée par les parlementaires , la population est prête à aller dans la rue .
« mais tout le monde sait que l ’ espoir d ’ être entendu est mince , très mince .
ce collectif se prépare déjà à un bras de fer avec le pouvoir .
german filmmakers set scene in sd mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 26 am edt scarecrows take up roost in campbell park sat oct 5 , 2013 8 : 26 pm edt closed by shutdown thu oct 3 , 2013 10 : 26 am edt ’ expo ’ sed to new things mon sep 30 , 2013 12 : 26 pm edt walk this way thu sep 26 , 2013 10 : 26 am edt now that the blizzard ’ s over , the recovery begins sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 26 pm edt sites not ready for debris sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 26 pm edt siouxland storms : ’ it really is a miracle ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 26 am edt sd gallery selling art owned by late sen. mcgovern fri oct 4 , 2013 8 : 26 pm edt usd losing its rotc military training program fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 26 pm edt sd court asked to reinstate firefighter lawsuit thu oct 3 , 2013 4 : 26 pm edt coyotes earn first valley win sun oct 6 , 2013 04 : 26 am edt police : man who set himself ablaze on mall dies sat oct 5 , 2013 6 : 26 pm edt former legislator patricia kenner dies thu oct 3 , 2013 2 : 26 pm edt the immigrant that thrived in south dakota tue oct 1 , 2013 2 : 26 pm edt technology in the suburbs ?
katy incubator gives it another go fri oct 4 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt now you can show your astrodome support with cupcakes , cocktails fri oct 4 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt chaione purchases historic eado building fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt river oaks retirement community on the way fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt uh and the neighborhood wed oct 2 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt texans routed by niners , 34-3 mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt two men swept away by rip currents off bryan beach in brazoria county sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt calgary web design by media dog productionsidei contemporane | cadran politic „ iugoslavia și tito – cei mai buni prieteni ai româniei ” această legendă , la dimensiuni de mit , este întreținută de mai mulți factori din manipulatorii de opinie publică românească din mai multe motive .
unele mai cunoscute , altele mai puțin .
unul dintre cele mai importante este că serviciile secrete din cele două țări au colaborat excelent în perioada 1954-1989 în combaterea opoziției față de regimurile instalate în cele două țări ....
îmbogățirea nu aduce glorie .
conștient de faptul că cei mulți vor rămâne în urmă , iar acest lucru se va transforma într-o problemă la un moment dat , deng xiaoping a inițiat reformele care au asigurat renașterea economică a chinei .
din anumite puncte de vedere deng a avut o sarcină ușoară în comparație cu problemele pe care xi jinping trebuie să le înfrunte .
conştient sau nu , traian băsescu a trasat perfect rolul văzut de clasa politică pentru românia : bazin de forţă de muncă .
ieftină .
fără drepturi şi fără pretenţii .
să zică mersi că au un servici şi nu mor de foame , deşi există studii care arată un grad mare de sărăcie în rândul angajaţilor din românia , care trece de 25 % .
un salariu minim de 540 lei net ...
conform lui marc chevrier ( & # 8220 ; une grand oubliée : société civile & # 8221 ; ) , societatea civilă reprezintă „ ansamblul raporturilor interindividuale , a structurilor familiale , sociale , economice , culturale , religioase , care se dezvoltă în societatea dată , în afara cadrului şi intervenţiei statului ” .
aceasta cuprinde forme asociative de tip apolitic şi care nu sunt părţi ale unei instituţii ...
notă : textul de mai jos a fost scris în 2007 .
merită citit pentru o confruntare cu realitatea politică actuală .
la nivel european dezbaterea momentului este “ mai multă sau mai puţină europă ” .
la noi nu se dezbate , traian băsescu a decis că ne trebuie mai multă , usl n-are nici o opinie .
crin antonescu încearcă să joace rolul anti-europeanului , dar el nu se pune , fiindcă el doar este contra lui băsescu şi dacă acesta a zis albă , crin nu poate zice nici măcar bălană , obligatoriu trebuie să ...
prezentul articol are ca obiectiv realizarea unei analize pertinente cu privire la posibilitatea ca atacurile teroriste ce au avut loc pe data de 11 septembrie 2001 pe teritoriul naţional al statelor unite ale americii să fi putut fi evitate de către comunitatea de servicii de informaţii .
administraţia publică este nucleul mecanismului statal .
prin poziţia sa de intermediar între puterea politică şi societate , aceasta are menirea pe de o parte de a pune în aplicare deciziile politice materializate în legi , hotărâri , ordonanţe etc. şi , pe de altă parte , de a fi purtător al cererilor , dorinţelor şi necesităţilor membrilor societăţii în faţa autorităţilor competente ...
românia nu a înţeles încă foarte bine că trebuie să se recalibreze pentru statutul său de membru important în spaţiul comunitar şi că nu s-a adaptat încă la jocul foarte complex al afacerilor europene .
pentru racordarea ţării la ue avem nevoie de 5.000 de români la bruxelles şi 25.000 de persoane în românia implicate în mod real în mecanismul comunitar .
în prezent avem doar vreo ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressreal estate game is a great stress reliever but doesn 't pan out and gets old fast it can also be found on the investors.com home page , where it 's updated intraday . the criteria for a stock to make it on the list are as follows : a woman who has been in a bolivian prison since 2008 and is terminally ill has been pardoned .
the woman , who is from cadiz , has breast cancer and was serving an eight-year jail sentence .
she was eligible for parole , but due to her situation , the bolivian government decided to pardon & # 8230 ; the junta de andalucia has finally agreed for malaga metro to run underground in the city centre after months of wrangling .
however , it will only run halfway along the alameda principal , and not as far as la malagueta area as initially planned .
the proposal , which was presented in a meeting & # 8230 ; it is not unusual for abusive people to be " wonderful " people to the outside world . god bless why capture of al-libi is " a big deal " for the us cbs news- & lrm ; 1 hour ago & lrm ; with 14 points in their collection kit , simba are three points adrift of second placed kagera sugar who will be visiting jkt ruvu at the chamazi stadium in dar es salaam .
however , the day ’ s top billing will be a clash between other title challengers coastal union and azam fc at the mkwakwani stadium in tanga .
the other match for the day will be between jkt oljoro who will be at home to visiting mbeya city at the sheikh amri abeid stadium in arusha .
the bipedal robot did better than i would have .
if they had hit me on the hip with a 20 lb weight while i was standing on one leg , i 'd have fallen over for sure .
the u.s. robots are focused on the killing business , as usual . i don 't think atlas is is being groomed to help out on the farm .
" the huffington post " is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com , inc .
all rights reserved.guide to bangkok living the tollway .
the trip should cost 350 + baht on the meter if traffic minimal .
as at may 2009 many cabs will turn off the meter and ask you for 400 baht .
thats ok as only a 50 baht tip if going thru the tollways and to nana soi 4 sunhumvit .
if not they may stop and throw you out on the highway ? ? ?
keep the main shit as the taxi stand will already give the butt to the driver and try to remember his cab number .
22 / .
when paying with a 1000 baht note make it be known --hold it up or display it and say loudly 1000 baht as many times in bars the staff will say it was only 500baht and the patpong gogos are reknown for this.try to attract other foreigners attention as well to avpoid an altercation. make sure you have enough money to cover your bar bill ? ? ? all the time ..
if you need pickup from the airport cost is 200baht for 2 people and over this is extra and to & from the bus or boat 60baht charge .
all rooms are nice and large and well set out and you can hire bikes or motorcycles here as well .
chian and his staff can offer you guidance and the best places to go into the hills around chiangrai which are undoubtedly the best there is .
we drove in the outback some 10 years ago and the scenery and hill tribe visits are out of this world .
try is or let the chian guides assist you .
now a growing number of states and school districts are increasing their focus on students who are “ chronically absent ” from school — whether the absences are excused or unexcused . states have different definitions of chronic absence , but it is often defined as missing at least 10 percent of the school year for any reason .
en afrique de l ’ ouest , les prix des produits alimentaires étaient stables ou ont diminué en novembre tandis que leurs disponibilités continuaient à s ’ améliorer avec la campagne de commercialisation en cours .
des hausses de prix ont eu lieu plus tôt que prévu dans des centres urbains de la région et dans les zones structurellement déficitaires en raison des flux limités de produits en provenance des régions de production excédentaire .
the year on year rise for the commodity in region ’ s markets was 36 percent .
one-fifth of the world ’ s children are the most vulnerable to vaccine preventable diseases .
katika maamuzi hayo ambayo hata hivyo wadau wa aina mbalimbali wameyakosoa , serikali imelifungia kwa siku 14 gazeti la mwananchi wakati gazeti la mtanzania limefungiwa kwa siku 90 yaani miezi mitatu .
adhabu hizo ziliaza septemba 27 , mwaka huu .
katika taarifa ya serikali ya kufungia magazeti hayo ambayo huchapishwa kila siku , habari tatu na makala moja vimetajwa kuwa chanzo cha uamuzi huo mkali na unaoumiza siyo magazeti hayo na kampuni zao tu , bali tasnia nzima ya habari nchini , bila kusahau maisha ya wahariri , wanahabari , familia zao na wote wanaopata kipato kwa kujihusisha kwa njia moja ama nyingine na usambazaji na uuzwaji wa magazeti hayo .
siyo nia yetu kuingia katika mjadala wa usahihi au makosa ya habari na makala husika , kwa maana habari kuhusu waislamu kusali chini ya ulinzi mkali na mishahara mipya serikalini 2013 zilizotolewa katika matoleo tofauti ya mwananchi na habari ya mapinduzi hayaepukiki urais wa damu na makala ya mapinduzi hayaepukiki ambavyo vilichapishwa kwenye matoleo tofauti ya mtanzania , ila ni msimamo wetu wa siku zote kwamba mfumo wa serikali wa kuadhibu vyombo vya habari kwa kuwa mlalamikaji na hakimu , haukubaliki katika taifa linalioendeshwa kwa mfumo wa kidemokrasia tena ya vyama vingi .
ieleweke kwamba siyo kazi yetu kutetea udhaifu wowote katika tasnia ya habari , kadhalika ieleweke kwamba sisi siyo mashabiki wala wafuasi wa kuandika habari za kuvunja kanuni , maadili na weledi wa taaluma ya uandishi wa habari , ila ni watetezi wakubwa wa kutaka utawala wa sheria unaozingatia haki ya kusikilizwa kufuatwa na kuheshimiwa kwa kila anayetaka kumuhukumu mwingine katika taifa hili .
ni jambo la bahati mbaya kwamba tangu mwaka 1992 tume ya jaji francis nyalali ilipopendekeza kuwa kama taifa hili litaamua kufuata mfumo wa vyama vingi , kama ambavyo tume hiyo ilipendekeza , basi sheria 40 zilianishwa kwamba ni lazima ama zifutwe au zirekebishwe ili ziendane na mfumo mpya wa vyama vingi .
miongoni mwa sheria hiyo ni hii ya magazeti namba 3 ya mwaka 1976 .
kwa bahati mbaya sana , tunasisitiza kwa bahati mbaya , serikali imekataa kuona mantiki ya pendekezo la tume ya jaji nyalali yapata miaka 20 na ushei sasa .
bado serikali imeendelea kukumbatia sheria hii ambayo kwa kweli inaathiri sana uhuru wa habari na haki ya msingi ya wananchi kupata habari , vyombo vya habari ni nyenzo ya wananchi kufikia habari ili kufanya maamuzi .
wadau wa habari kwa zaidi ya miaka 10 sasa wamekuwa katika harakati nyingi za kutaka kutungwa kwa sheria mpya ya habari , ambayo pamoja na mambo mengine itaanisha haki ya kupata habari , wajibu wa vyombo vya habari lakini pia wajibu wa serikali katika kufanikishwa kwa kazi hii muhimu .
hakuna ubishi habari ni haki ya kila mwananchi na ni nyenzo mmojawapo ya kuwawezesha wananchi kuchukua maamuzi juu ya taifa lao na mustakabali mzima wa maisha yao .
haki ni haki tu .
haki ikiwekewa vikwazo ni sawa kabisa na kuopora .
siyo vema serikali ikaonekana kuwa kinara wa kuminya haki za wananchi wake , hasa kwa kujichukulia sheria mkononi kwa kuwa kufanya hivyo ni kuvunja misingi halisi ya utawala bora na demokrasia .
haipendezi .
tunajua wahariri wa vyombo vya habari na waandishi wote kwa ujumla wao ni wanadamu kama binadamu mwingine yeyote ; wanafanya makosa makubwa kwa madogo , wanateleza kama ambavyo ilivyo kwa watendaji wengine katika tasnia nyingine nchini ; kwa maana hiyo ni rai yetu kwamba katika kuteleza huko kuwe kwa makusudi au kwa bahati mbaya ni vema na haki anayedhani kuwa amekosewa katika udhaifu huo akawasilisha malalamiko yake kwenye chombo huru ambacho kinasikiliza hoja husika na kuziamulia kwa haki .
msingi huu ndiwo unajenga dhana nzima ya utawala bora , haki ya kusikilizwa na kwamba hakuna mwenye haki ya kusikiliza shauri lake mwenyewe na kuliamulia .
sote tunaelewa hakuna mwandishi wa habari au mhariri yeyote anayekataa kushitakiwa , kusikilizwa na kukubali hukumu itakayotolewa na chombo huru kama vile mahakama .
ni wajibu wa juu kabisa kwa mwanahabari au mhariri na hata mchapishaji kutii na kukubaliana na maamuzi ya kimahakama .
kwa kuonyesha ukomavu huo , vyombo vya habari vyote vya tanzania vinakubaliana kabisa na misingi ya kuwako kwa usuluhishi wa mashauri ya kihabari kupitia baraza la habari tanzania ( mct ) kama chombo cha hiari chenye majukumu pamoja na mambo mengine kusikiliza na kuamua malalamiko dhidi ya vyombo vya habari .
serikali inatambua kuwapo kwa baraza hili kwa zaidi ya miaka 17 sasa tena likitekeleza wajibu wa kusikiliza mashauri na kuamua , kikubwa ni kwamba maamuzi yake yamepokewa na kuheshimiwa na wadau wote kwa zaidi ya asilimia 99 .
tunafikiri serikali itambue kwamba katika zama za sasa siyo sawa na kwa kweli hajijengei picha nzuri ndani na nje ya nchi kwa kuendelea kutumia sheria mbaya na kandamizi wakati ikitajwa kuwa miongoni mwa mataifa yaliyoridhia mikataba ya kujiendesha kwa uwazi .
en 1990 le front patriotique rwandais ( fpr ) , une organisation politico-militaire , lançait une offensive contre le gouvernement rwandais , dirigé à l ’ époque par le en 1991 , une nouvelle constitution , garantissant le multipartisme et les libertés publiques , est adoptée .
se créent alors des partis d ’ oppositions , dont trois démarrent avec un franc succès , notamment le mouvement démocratique en 1993 , des accords de paix sont signés entre le fpr , le gouvernement rwandais et les autres partis d ’ opposition .
la guerre cesse mais les tensions entre le 6 avril 1994 le président habyarimana est assassiné dans l ’ attentat contre son avion et la guerre reprend .
elle est plus intense à kigali où les accords ont permis au fpr d ’ installer officiellement un bataillon composé de 600 hommes .
au même moment les massacres d ’ extermination sont perpétrés sur la quasi totalité du territoire rwandais .
le fpr s ’ en prend aux hutu tandis que les milices anti-fpr s ’ en prennent aux tutsi et aux hutu accusés de collaboration avec le fpr .
c ’ est le génocide rwandais , devenu génocide des tutsi , excluant dès sa prise de pouvoir en juillet 94 , le fpr continue ses massacres contre mais la chasse aux hutu ne débute pas en 1994 .
en effet elle commence juste après l ’ attaque du fpr , fin 1990 .
dès cette date , les hutus des zones contrôlées par ce dernier font l ’ objet de massacres , de tortures et d ’ exploitation .
les survivants s ’ entassent dans des camps de déplacés qui parfois sont visés par des attaques de cette rébellion .
en 1993 le nombre de déplacés entassés dans des camps , dans des conditions de misères est environ de 1 million , près de la les plus importants de ces massacres d ’ avant 1994 sont : celui de ruhengeri en janvier 1991 , où plus de 500 personnes sont exécutées , femmes et enfants inclus ; celui de butaro en mai 1992 avec 150 victimes et , surtout , celui de février 1993 où près de 40 000 personnes sont massacrés par le fpr dans les préfectures de byumba et ruhengeri ( james k. gasana , rwanda : du parti-état a en avril 1994 , le fpr conquiert de vastes zones en un temps record .
les hutu trouvés sur place sont massacrés et leurs corps brûlés , jetés dans les rivières ou dans certains cas entassés à des fins de manipulation des journalistes après sa prise de pouvoir en juillet 1994 , le fpr massacre les hutu sur l ’ ensemble du territoire .
le cas le plus documenté est le massacre des déplacés hutu de kibeho , dans l ’ ancienne préfecture de gikongoro , en avril 1995 , où les déplacés sont encerclés et interdits de sortir du camp pendant plusieurs jours avant d ’ être massacrés par coups de fusil , coups de canon et baïonnettes .
tout se passe devant les militaires de l ’ onu qui observent l ’ opération , prennent des photos mais ne secourent personne .
a la fin de la journée plus de 8000 personnes avaient été massacrées , sur les 100 000 qu ’ abritait le camp .
selon un témoin direct , les corps furent entassés dans des camions transportés dans les forêts avoisinantes , où ils furent brulés ou enterrés dans des fosses communes .
dans d ’ autres régions du pays , le fpr convoquait des réunions de villages sur la sécurité ou de distribution de nourritures .
dès que suffisamment de monde s ’ était réuni , il les massacrait soit avec les armes blanches ou par balles , grenades et bombes selon le nombre des cibles ou encore les brulait vifs .
selon une enquête de l ’ onu , conduite en 1994 , connue sous l ’ appellation de & rdquo ; gersony report & bdquo ; ces massacres étaient systématiques , réguliers , visaient la population hutue et ce indistinctement , les hommes les femmes , les enfants , les personnes âgées ainsi que les malades .
ce rapport estimait qu ’ entre 25 000 et 45 000 personnes avaient été massacrées entre avril et août 1994 rien que dans les les zones des massacres étaient interdites d ’ accès jusqu ’ à ce que les victimes soient dégagées et brulées .
ce fut le cas par exemple pour plusieurs endroits de l ’ ancienne préfecture de butare , au sud du pays .
en octobre 1996 , le fpr attaque le congo où étaient refugiés plus de deux d ’ octobre 1996 à juillet 1997 , ces refugiés furent traqués , torturés , violés , délibérément affamés , privés de toute assistance , massacrés à l ’ arme blanche , l ’ onu a fait une enquête dont les résultats , & rdquo ; le mapping report & bdquo ; d ’ octobre 2010 ne laissent aucun doute quant à l ’ intention [ massacrés à l ’ arme blanche , piégés , violées avant d ’ être tuées : l ’ exemple de dans cette région , les massacres ont été organisés selon un schéma quasi identique [ à celui des autres régions , ndlr ] , de façon à tuer un maximum de victimes .
à chaque fois qu ’ ils repéraient une grande concentration de réfugiés , les militaires de l ’ afdl / apr tiraient sur eux de manière indiscriminée à l ’ arme lourde et à l ’ arme légère .
ils promettaient ensuite aux rescapés de les aider à après les avoir rassemblés sous différents prétextes , ils les tuaient le plus souvent à coups de marteau ou de houe .
ceux qui tentaient de fuir étaient tués par balles .
plusieurs témoins ont affirmé qu ’ en 1999 [ deuxième guerre après celle de 1996 , ndlr ] , des militaires de l ’ apr se seraient rendus spécialement sur les sites de plusieurs massacres afin de déterrer les corps et de brûler les à partir du 9 décembre 1996 , des militaires de l ’ afdl / apr ont tué par balles plusieurs centaines de réfugiés , parmi lesquels un grand nombre de femmes et d ’ enfants au niveau du pont de hombo .
au cours des jours suivants , ils ont brûlé vifs un nombre indéterminé de réfugiés au bord de la route au niveau de la localité de kampala , située à quelques kilomètres de hombo .
avant d ’ être tuées , de nombreuses femmes ont été violées par les militaires .
avant de les tuer , les militaires avaient demandé aux victimes de se regrouper en vue de leur au cours d ’ avril 1997 , alors qu ’ entre 60 et 120 réfugiés mourraient chaque jour de maladie ou d ’ épuisement , les militaires de l ’ afdl / apr ont , à plusieurs reprises , interdit l ’ accès des camps aux organismes et ong à vocation humanitaire et entravé le rapatriement des réfugiés vers le rwanda .
vers la fin d ’ avril 1997 , des éléments de l ’ afdl / apr ont brûlé vifs des réfugiés au niveau du village de lolengi , à 48 kilomètres de boende .
les militaires ont recouvert les corps des victimes de bâches en plastique qu ’ ils le 13 mai 1997 , des éléments de l ’ afdl / apr , à leur arrivée dans le village de réfugiés & bdquo ; .
ils se sont ensuite dirigés vers le camp et ont ouvert le feu sur le même jour , les militaires sont entrés dans le bureau de la croix-rouge locale et ont tué des enfants non accompagnés qui attendaient leur rapatriement vers le le même jour , la population de wendji a enterré 116 corps .
un bébé de trois mois environ qui était encore vivant au moment de l ’ enterrement a été tué par un militaire de l ’ afdl / apr qui supervisait les travaux d ’ inhumation .
le 14 mai , 17 l ’ onu conclut que d ’ après les résultats de son enquête , la qualification de génocide peut être retenue pour les crimes commis contre les hutus , refugiés et présent rapport , ayant ciblé de très nombreux réfugiés hutu rwandais ainsi que des membres de la population civile hutu [ congolaise , ndlr ] et causé leur mort , révèlent plusieurs éléments accablants qui , s ’ ils sont prouvés devant un en considérant les périodes des massacres , le fait que même les bébés n ’ étaient pas épargnés et que même les hutu congolais ont été visés par les massacres il n ’ y a aucun doute quant à l ’ identité des victimes ni au mobile de leurs bourreaux : les hutu étaient visés et ce , parce qu ’ ils sont nés hutu .
l ’ épisode congolais ne marque pas la fin de leur calvaire .
l ’ extermination exemple , en décembre 1997 , on estime à 8000 victimes hutues qui ont étés brulées comme mentionné plus haut , le fait que le régime du fpr a requalifié le génocide rwandais en génocide des tutsi , a exclu les victimes hutues .
la seule commémoration officielle autorisée au rwanda étant celle du génocide des tutsi , les victimes hutues se retrouvent sans cadre de commémoration officiellement au-delà de cette interdiction de fait , quiconque ose parler de ces victimes hutues est accusé pêle-mêle de négationnisme , divisionnisme , révisionnisme ou de minimisation du génocide des tutsi du rwanda , à l ’ instar de victoire ingabire , actuellement emprisonnée à kigali .
en belgique , il est traité de négationniste , génocidaire ou de membre des familles de génocidaire ( la libre.be du 7 avril 2013 ) ou pire comparé à nazi .
citons le cas du député alain destexhe qui , sur son compte twitter le 7 avril 2013 , a comparé aux & rdquo ; nazi & bdquo ; les commémorants qui entendaient honorer la mémoire de toutes les victimes de la tragédie rwandaise .
la faute de ces derniers est d ’ avoir osé aller se souvenir au mémorial du génocide rwandais à bruxelles , le 6 avril plutôt que le 7 , date de la tutsies , ibuka et d ’ avoir voulu commémorer toutes les victimes indépendamment de depuis 1990 , soit plus de 22 ans actuellement , aucune juridiction n ’ a rendu le rwanda a interdit à toute personne de réclamer justice pour les hutu et ce , par des menaces et des actes de violence .
pendant que les juridictions gacaca ont été instituées pour rendre justice à toutes les victimes , les hutu n ’ ont jamais eu une juridiction vers laquelle se tourner .
exception faite de la justice espagnole où , profitant des victimes espagnoles tuées par le fpr , des associations de droits de l ’ homme ont inclu des victimes hutues .
néanmoins , cette justice s ’ est arrêtée à lancer des mandats d ’ arrêts qui le cas le plus aberrant est certainement celui du tribunal pénal international pour le rwanda dont la mission était de juger les crimes commis au rwanda de janvier à décembre 1994 .
malgré les instructions détaillées de certains dossiers incriminant des officiers du fpr , le tribunal a toujours fermé les yeux .
pire encore , le tribunal a à plusieurs reprises obéi aux ordres du régime du fpr ou , au moins , cédé à ses menaces .
un des exemples est celui de mr barayagwiza jean-bosco .
en novembre 1999 la chambre d ’ appel a constaté que ses droits de défense avaient été violés au point que ni son arrestation ni son acte d ’ accusation n ’ étaient légaux .
elle a alors ordonné sa mise en liberté et la nullité de son acte d ’ accusation .
dès lors le régime rwandais menaça d ’ arrêter toute collaboration avec le tribunal .
la chambre d ’ appel a dû revenir sur sa décision ..
par la suite , le tribunal le condamna à 32 ans de prison et il y mourra en 2010 .
un autre exemple est la tentative du procureur du tpir carla del des fonctionnaires rwandais ont empêché des témoins de se rendre au tribunal , entraînant la suspension de plusieurs procès pendant des mois & bdquo ; .
par la suite , carla del ponte a été limogé son de son poste et remplacé par hasan jallow et c ’ est la fin de l ’ espoir de voir le tpir juger des membres du fpr .
dans d ’ autres cas , des témoins d ’ accusations sont revenus sur leurs dires et ont affirmé avoir été menacés par les services de renseignement du fpr mais également ont été entraînés pour donner de faux témoignages [ 2 ] .
malgré que ce phénomène qui semble s ’ être généralisé dans toutes les juridictions , au rwanda , en belgique et au tpir , celui-ci les a toujours ignorés .
ce fut le cas , par exemple , dans les procès de karemera ( témoin surnommé bth pour sa sécurité ) , bicamumpaka ( témoin gfa ) et en belgique dans le procès des religieuses .
en belgique , seuls des hutu ont été jugés .
plusieurs officiels affirment que la seule raison qui explique cette discrimination est qu ’ il n ’ existe aucune plainte visant les membres du fpr .
cependant , des témoins ont vu des personnes visées par les mandats d ’ arrêts espagnols aller et venir en belgique sans être inquiétés .
c ’ est le cas , entre autres , du général james kabarebe aujourd ’ hui depuis le génocide de 1994 , les hutu ont été collectivement et systématiquement l ’ objectif de ces manœuvres semble être , d ’ une part , d ’ assimiler les victimes hutues aux bourreaux des tutsi , et les bourreaux des hutu , c ’ est-à-dire le fpr , aux victimes tutsies .
ainsi le fpr se retrouve victime comme les réelles victimes tutsies tandis que ce sont les victimes hutues qui se retrouvent plusieurs éléments ont concouru à cette manœuvre cynique .
en effet , l ’ organisation de la justice a permis au fpr d ’ accuser qui il veut d ’ être prisonniers politiques , d ’ opposants et des humanitaires tels que monsieur paul le fait de voir des jugements , au rwanda comme à l ’ étranger , qui ne respectent pas le principe d ’ impartialité a fait régner une peur constante chez les hutu. justice canadienne qui a condamné une personne parce qu ’ elle n ’ avait pas été tuée pendant le génocide .
selon cette justice les hutu modérés ont été tués pendant le génocide .
ce qui fait de tout hutu survivant un non-modéré donc en plus de cette partialité , comme dit plus haut , le fpr a utilisé de manière généralisée des faux témoins qu ’ il a entrainé à mentir avant de les envoyer témoigner .
on retrouve des aveux de certains des faux témoins qui ont témoigné a cela il faut ajouter le rôle des médias et des sion de diabolisation de la population hutue et de blanchiment du fpr .
toutes ces injustices ont fait que beaucoup de hutu se cachent , taisent leur horrifiant calvaire .
etant victimes des juridictions censées les protéger , ils n ’ osent pas y avoir recours et de toute façon ils n ’ en ont pas les moyens .
en tout cas pas à la hauteur de leur bourreau , le fpr à la tête de l ’ etat rwandais , le principal et prioritaire souci des hutu est encore , de survivre à cette force est de constater que tant que la double mission sera poursuivie , les tensions entre les hutu et les tutsi continueront à s ’ intensifier et ce à tord , renforcera les criminels qui ne feront que les opprimer et les exploiter encore la question est : il y a-t- il un espoir de solution ?
la reconnaissance du calvaire des hutu ainsi que sa qualification semblent constituer une étape obligée ; sans laquelle c ’ est leur diabolisation orchestrée par leur bourreau qui continuera à autoriser , cautionner , encourager et couvrir notamment au congo .
l ’ autre condition nécessaire est celle de disposer de leaders engagés à la construction d ’ un avenir commun pour l ’ ensemble de la mwapachu said now , it is the right time for male to claim for their rights to be identified in the new constitution .
she said generally a victimised man is shy and afraid of being laughed at if he reveals that he was beaten by his wife or girlfriend – a situation that has left men to suffer silently .
according to the world ’ s new report on men abuses , about two in five of all victims of domestic violence are men .
these aren ’ t lame praises .
the media houses in this country have done a commendable job since the liberalization of the industry over two decades ago – so the last thing any sane person would want to see is an improvement on the 1976 act .
“ we ’ re at a point where we are going to take as good care of the system that we have now for as long as we can , but we know that we can 't hold our own for long , ” said dave nichols , the agency ’ s director .
“ you don ’ t add a room on a house when the roof is leaking . ”
" our partners in the caribbean are benefiting from the etp program , " said marco tagliatti , vice president of lodging supply for the expedia group .
" we are meeting a consumer need by offering a choice in how travelers prefer to pay and the result is more bookings and revenue for our hotel partners . " 華盛頓州讀者問 ： 我是美國公民 ， 未婚 ， 生於 1952 年 1 月 。 我在美國工作已有 20 年並累積 40 個工作季點 。 我有下列問題想請教您們 。 ( 1 ) 我計畫於 2014 年 1 月 62 歲時提早申請退休 ， 我該怎辦 ？ ( 2 ) 我可以獲得多少退休金 ？ ( 3 ) 假如我於 62 歲時 ...
also applauding the delivery of justice were the special rapporteurs on the independence of judges and lawyers and on human rights defenders .
gobierno de cuba reitera carácter genocida de bloqueo estadounidense contra la naciónmás de 50 años después , y a pesar de los reclamos de la comunidad internacional , estados unidos mantiene el bloqueo económico , comercial y financiero contra cuba , una ... rafael correa : que la lucha de hugo nos inspire a todos para seguir adelanteel presidente de ecuador , rafael correa , destacó este lunes que la lucha por la igualdad social que emprendió el líder de la revolución bolivariana , hugo chávez , es ... ecuador aspira a producir 800 millones de litros de etanol en 2020ecuador comercializa biocombustible , una mezcla de 95 % de gasolina extra con 5 % de etanol anhidro .
la comercialización de este derivado es vendido en pocas estaciones , ...
gobierno de cuba reitera carácter genocida de bloqueo estadounidense contra la nación rafael correa : que la lucha de hugo nos inspire a todos para seguir adelante ecuador aspira a producir 800 millones de litros de etanol en 2020 periodista mexicano denuncia nuevas formas de injerencia de la cia en venezuela el periodista ángel guerra cabrera hace un análisis de la reciente expulsión por parte del presidente de la república , nicolás maduro , de la jefa de la misión diplomática de estados unidos en venezuela , kelly keiderling franz " # fuerzacristina desde venezuela te acompañamos con una oración amorosa , para una presidenta del sur que ama a su pueblo .
pronta recuperación " , escribió maduro en la red social el organismo internacional detalló que la destrucción de las armas se lleva a cabo bajo supervisión de los expertos de la organización para la prohibición de armas químicas ( opaq , por sus siglas en inglés ) , enviado a siria tras 37 años , eeuu protege a terrorista que explotó avión de cubana de aviación el ataque fue planificado en caracas por los terroristas de origen cubano luis posada carriles y orlando bosch ávila , y fue ejecutado por los venezolanos hernán ricardo y freddy lugo bachelet propone 50 medidas desarrollo colectivo en primeros 100 días de gobierno presidenta de argentina será operada este martes en la mañana brasil exigirá explicaciones a canadá ante nuevas denuncias de espionaje it 's a sad day in ecuador and for everyone around the world that saw a dash of hope in an otherwise crazed world that 's willing to risk our climate and biodiversity for money from fossil fuels . a local boxer , suleiman kidunda who is now in kazakhstan was doing well in training and tbf is aware he is happy with everything in kazakhstan .
kidunda flied to kazakhstan on a wbf invitation for boxers who qualified for last year ’ s olympic games to participate in special training and an event championship .
welcome to thewebpagefor thedepartmentof catechesis , r.c.i.a. and lay apostolate of the diocese ofduluth .
" the definitive aim of catechesis isto put people not only in touch but in communion , in intimacy , withjesus christ : only he can lead us to the love of the father in the spirit and make us share in the life of the trinity . "
( john paul ii , on catechesis in our time # 5 ) catechesis is not only for children .
it is for every human person god ever created , and will create .
the goal of catechesis is to put all people into intimate communion with jesus christ .
this means two things .
first , all catechesis is sacramental preparation .
in the eucharist we receive jesus christ , fully god and fully man , body , blood , soul and divinity .
there can be no more intimate communion with christ this side of the grave .
second , the definitive aim of catechesis is to lead people to a life of holiness in order to live in the midst of the life-giving love of the trinity for all eternity .
yes , the goal of catechesis is to be a saint .
all human persons have a right to all that god intends , and thedepartment of catechesis , r.c.i.a. and lay apostolateis dedicated to forming catechetical leaders and catechists in this mission .
catechist prayeryou , o god , are my strength , my patience , my light and my councel .
it is you who make responsive to me the students confided to my care .
abandon me not to myself for one moment .
for my own conduct and for that of my students , grant me the spirit of wisdom and understanding , the spirit of knowledge and piety , the spirit of holy fear of you , and an ardent zeal to procure your glory .
i unite my effortsto those of jesus christ , the master teacher , andi beg the most blessed virgin , st. joseph and pope st. pius x , to assist me in the exercise of my teaching ministry .
amen . caribbean news now ! : former guatemalan president extradited to us to face money laundering charges according to information available at the national service ’ s website , one has the freedom to postpone joining the service by simply writing to the national service . & ldquo ; a student who has been enrolled at a university can write and send the letter to our headquarters , postponing the decision to join the service . & rdquo ; volunteers should be kitted out with grit and shovels to help clear pavements from snow and ice when temperatures drop , a councillor is arguing .
a man left in a coma after a car struck him believes police are refusing to investigate because he had been drinking .
there 's such a thing as neighbourly love ... but for one woman that was put to the test when she found out she was paying next door 's water bill .
a driver had to be cut free from her car after a collision with a bus el fraude deportivo en mirandala semana pasada hablamos sobre el fraude educativo de la gobernación de miranda , lamentablemente la situación en el deporte no es menos grave .
sólo gracias al esfuerzo ... chávez es la fuerza natural que se proyecta hacia el futuro " aquí está chávez de pie con ustedes " , dijo mientras el agua corría copiosamente por su cara .
el recorrido de esa semana final de la campaña para las ... revoluciones en democracia , democracias en revolucióndemocracia : soberanía de la mayoría .
soberanía : poder máximo que no se somete a ningún otro .
contra estas definiciones la reacción ha tejido en todos los tiempos el ...
lo que sí es un fraude consistente es el lamentable fraude educativo en miranda , cada día es más evidente la pésima gestión de la política educativa del gobernador de miranda sería lo que algunos llamarían un acontecimiento conmocionante o en palabras de condoleeza rice la “ oportunidad estratégica ” me mueve a escribir el hecho de que muy pronto ocurrirán acontecimientos graves .
no transcurren en nuestra época diez o quince años sin que nuestra especie corra peligros reales de extinción .
ni obama ni nadie podría garantizar otra cosa ; ya que solo la verdad nos podría ofrecer un poco de bienestar los estratos socio-psicológicos del fascismo se movilizan en la dirección de conservar las seguridades y esto instala a la subjetividad en el lugar donde el deseo es sacrificado a favor del orden , por miedo a que el deseo rebase sus propios límites y se convierta en deseo revolucionario la cia y la guerra ( no tan ) secreta contra venezuela who was militant nabbed by us in libya ? abc newstwitter facebook billings police seek information on thursday night hit and run sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 17 am edt farmers market finishes its run for 2013 sat oct 5 , 2013 9 : 17 pm edt two vying to be bozeman ’ s next mayor sun oct 6 , 2013 03 : 17 am edt new rev. in town - captivated by montana , new butte priest inspires parishioners mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 17 am edt montana anthology a fine memoir by annick smith of the blackfoot valley sun oct 6 , 2013 03 : 17 am edt facts about alzheimer ’ s sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 17 am edt retailers gearing up to hire for the holidays sat oct 5 , 2013 07 : 17 am edt charges added in death of newlywed at glacier park fri oct 4 , 2013 1 : 17 pm edt apple announces two new iphones fri sep 13 , 2013 3 : 17 pm edt skylights outlast fighting saints sun oct 6 , 2013 03 : 17 am edt saturday ’ s prep football sun oct 6 , 2013 03 : 17 am edt how do you cook a squash ?
ask your mother sun oct 6 , 2013 03 : 17 am edt infanger honored at bobcat game for his volunteerism sun oct 6 , 2013 03 : 17 am edt infanger honored at bobcat game sat oct 5 , 2013 5 : 17 pm edt montana in the middle of health-care statistic mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 17 am edt kalispell man , 22 , accused of lewd texts sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 17 am edt butternut squash soup sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 17 am edt explore : skiumah lake sun oct 6 , 2013 07 : 17 am edt doggies in the window : car-riding canines catch some air mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 17 am edt in an effort to rekindle the public ’ s excitement over stamp collecting and interest a new generation in the hobby , the united states postal service has created an instant stamp rarity — a twist on one of the world ’ s most famous and valuable stamps .
when mr. robey spotted the glaring misprint , he knew he had struck gold .
he promptly resold his full sheet of 100 inverts to a dealer and bought himself a new house with the proceeds .
no further examples of the error ever surfaced , and nowadays when one of the vintage inverts comes up for sale , it reliably fetches a six-figure price .
patricia moeser , a philatelist who is one of the organizers of a major international stamp collectors ’ convention in new york in 2016 , said on saturday that she welcomed any effort by the postal service to increase interest in stamp collecting .
clinton has switched careers frequently , is a pragmatic idealist , wants a meaningful life and married the guy who left his hedge fund job to become a ski bum , instead of the rhodes scholar whom her father adored .
she also said , " i don 't know " to a question about her five-year plan .
so is she a quintessential millennial ?
goodwood is a by-word for speed but lesley bellew found west dean gardens could not be hurried cut back asparagus foliage and weed the bed and any self-set trim conifers if necessary for the last time , but don ’ t cut amid an unprecedented flurry of energy deals , beijing strengthens alliances on russia ’ s backdoor but struggles to keep xinjiang as happy .
1 .
anna pushkarskaya et al. article headlined " kremlin to continue to study abroad " says the kremlin is to pay an equivalent of $ 1.1 million to researchers working on a list of topics in politics and history ; p 1 ( 1,072 words ) .
the chief secretary ambassador ombeni sefue on thursday urged tanzanians to safeguard national ict network and make good use of it to speed up national development .
what information does ibd collect from you and how is it used ?
registrationproducts and services requiring paymenthow we gather information from youcookiesweb beaconssharinglegal disclaimeraggregate informationthird parties may receive or collect information through ibdibd forumscommunication via emailsubscribing to and unsubscribing from emailsupplementation of information with affiliatessite and service updatessecurityphishingcorrection / updating personal informationpersonal information you disclosechildrenchanges to our privacy policy web beacons , also called web bugs and clear gifs are used in combination with cookies to help us understand the behavior of our customers .
a web beacon is typically a transparent graphic image that is placed on our site or in an email .
the use of a web beacon allows ibd to record the simple actions of the user opening the page that contains the beacon .
this privacy policy covers the use of cookies by ibd and its affiliates only and does not cover the use of cookies by any advertisers orthird party partners who help us serve ads ..
if you have any questions about the security at our web site , you can contact us at www.askibd.com.
the word " user ( s ) " means any person ( also referred to as " you " or " yours " ) visiting investors.com or holding subscription ( s ) to or trial ( s ) of any ibd product .
all trademarks used herein are the exclusive property of their respective trademark owners and may not be used in any way without written consent of owner .
you may use the content online and solely for your personal , non-commercial use , and you may download or print a single copy of any portion of the content for your personal , non-commercial use , provided you do not remove any trademark , copyright or other notice contained in such content .
no other use is permitted .
you may not , for example , republish the content on any internet , intranet or extranet site or incorporate the content in any database , compilation , archive or cache .
you may not distribute any of the content to others , whether or not for payment or other consideration , and you may not modify , copy , frame , reproduce , sell , publish , transmit , display or otherwise use any portion of the content without the written consent of ibd .
for information on requests to use of the content for any purpose other than as permitted in this paragraph , please see licensing .
mail orders : if you order a paid subscription to any of our services by mailing in an order coupon to ibd , your subscription will lapse at the end of the subscription term and will not automatically renew unless you have affirmatively checked the box indicating auto-renew on the order coupon .
in the event you checked the auto-renew option , your subscription will continue until terminated by ibd or until you notify ibd of your cancellation .
you may cancel your subscription at any time .
for details , refer to our cancellation policy and our refund policy .
by submitting a username and password on any ibd online community and / or forum registration page , you agree to be bound by the investors.comterms of useas well as thesupplemental termsset forth herein ( collectively " terms of use " ) . & # 149 ; create liability for use or cause us to lose the services of our isps or other suppliers .
president jakaya kikwete has ordered rufiji basin development authority ( rubada ) to immediately discuss and offer at least 32,000 ha of land to two firms in the authority ’ s project .
president jakaya kikwete has officially declared an end to contentions pitting tanzania with rwanda on the country ’ s northwestern frontier .
remarking on the contention at his month end speech last night , the president referred to his last speech at the end of july this year , noting on difficulties in tanzania-rwanda relations , armed robberies and illegal migration in kigoma , geita and kagera regions .
the european union delegation in tanzania said it was concerned by the recent decision of the government to suspend publication of ’ mwananchi ’ and ’ mtanzania ’ newspapers .
president jakaya kikwete has sent a congratulatory message to president of the republic of korea park geun-hye , on the occasion of the national foundation day marked yesterday .
in a statement availed to the guardian yesterday by the ministry of foreign affairs and international co-operation president kikwete extended his sincere congratulations to the government and people of the republic of korea on the occasion of their country ’ s national foundation day .
chakechake district , pemba island is reported to have the country ’ s lowest use of contraceptives and suffers the highest count of at risk maternity cases as well as high rates of child morbidity and mortality .
the situation at the maramboi area in vilima vitatu village clearly calls for urgent legal and political intervention to resolve the conflicts at hand .
cosmas mwaisobwa , the board ’ s director of communication , information and education said in dar es salaam yesterday thatthe number of successful applicants stood at 94 .
the plan is one of the fund ’ s initiatives to increase revenue and improve the pensions of customers , nssf acting director general ludovick mrosso told journalists in dar es salaam .
she said tic is ready to receive and assist all with interest to invest in the northern regions of manyara , tanga , kilimanjaro and arusha regions .
she said the forum which was the first of its kind in the northern zone is only the beginning of tic and government ’ s renewed resolution to promote and later facilitate investors in the country .
she thanked all the four regions for effectively taking part in the forum which she said was the correct strategy to woo more investors for the benefit of the regions concerned and the country at large .
on her part , hanang ’ district commissioner , christina mndeme said the forum was of great importance to her district .
the buckingham festival of music and drama is no more .
police are searching for two thieves who slit open a woman & # 8217 ; s handbag and stole her purse in bicester on friday .
people struggling to get a foot on the property ladder in north oxfordshire are being urged to have a look a new self-build project .
police are appealing for witnesses after a man was seriously injured in a road accident in ambrosden on sunday .
animal-lovers rally to help owner of dog injured by car a dog which suffered horrific injuries when it was hit by a car in ardley is on the mend thanks to well-wishers who donated hundreds of pounds towards vet bills .
a sea of uniforms filled market square as the 2507 air training corps squadron was granted the liberty of bicester on sunday .
cornyn disagreed , saying that " ted [ cruz ] and i share the concern about what obamacare is doing to our economy . "
cornyn again tried to lay the blame on democrats for not allowing obamacare cuts to be part of a shutdown solution , but schieffer quickly cut him off .
" senator , isn ’ t there something wrong when you say " i won ’ t fund the government unless i can attach my personal wish list to the legislation every time we vote ?
i ’ d love to see the government find a cure for cancer , but i don ’ t think you can say i ’ m not going to pass and pass any funds for the rest of the government until the nih finds a cure for cancer .
i mean , isn ’ t that just kind of the same thing here ? "
“ we view this as a long-term effort , ” said tim phillips , the president of americans for prosperity .
he said his group expected to spend “ tens of millions ” of dollars on a “ multifront effort ” that includes working to prevent states from expanding medicaid under the law .
the group ’ s goal is not to defund the law .
“ you ’ re here because now is the single best time we have to defund obamacare , ” declared mr. cruz , who would go on to rail against the law on the senate floor in september with a monologue that ran for 21 hours .
“ this is a fight we can win . ”
although mr. cruz is new to the senate , the tactic of defunding in washington is not .
for years , congress has banned the use of certain federal money to pay for abortions , except in the case of incest and rape , by attaching the so-called hyde amendment to spending bills .
“ there just wasn ’ t the appetite for it at the time , ” mr. tiahrt said in an interview .
“ they thought , we don ’ t need to worry about it because the supreme court will strike it down . ”
all rights reserved | view full siteinvesting in fund managements in the western world , guidelines and pitfalls source bruce sheppard nz in stirring the pot | 2 : 27 pm 19 august 2008 1 .
how secure is my income between now and when i retire ?
so here is a list of questions for any potential adviser .
1 .
what are the fixed costs , how do you charge for your time ? 2 .
if you invest in managed funds what are the costs structures of each and what if any commissions do you receive ? • now here is the biggie .
i am yet to meet a financial planner who eats his own porridge .
he expects you to put all your money with him and buy a portfolio of managed funds .
ask the planner you are talking to what he is doing with his money ?
if you are lucky they might have some of their money in their own product , if so ask to see their personal investment reports for as long as they have been involved in the industry .
if on their own money they have not done well , then i guess you can assume they won ’ t do well for you either .
now of course he might say to you well i am new in this game , and i am still paying off my home and i have nothing to invest .
they have to start somewhere but before you appoint them ask to meet the senior planner in the firm , there will be one , and ask to see what he does .
ask to see his whole balance sheet , how much has he got in the firm ’ s products relative to his total portfolio , how has his portfolio performed , has he been taking money out and putting it in , has he been trying to guess timing , find out how this guy got to the top of the tree .
again i have to tell you that mostly even the successful ones do not invest in the stuff they are trying to sell you , or if they do it is very minor and what is more they do try to guess timing .
what you are looking for is someone who does for himself what he wants to do for you , and can demonstrate with his own affairs that it works .
the 18th busan international film festival opened its 10-day run on thursday with a screening of " vara : a blessing " by bhutanese filmmaker and monk khyentse norbu .
the oaks put in by far their best performance of the season on saturday , but still contrived to lose.half-backs ollie shirtcliff and sam ...
minnesota dioceses : the archdiocese of saint paul and minneapolisthe diocese of saint cloudthe diocese of crookstonthe diocese of new ulmthe diocese of winona for the entire last year , the pre tax profit was 12.44bn / - , which has been surpassed by far by the pre tax profit of 13.17bn / - for the first nine months of this year .
jacqueline woiso , the deputy ceo of the bank , attributed the bank ’ s success to its deep understanding of the requirements of its clients and the excellence in delivering these in the most efficient and seamless manner . & ldquo ; it is obvious that our bank is the preferred one for most tanzanian corporate & rdquo ; she said thanking all the customers and stakeholders of the bank for the trust and confidence reposed by them in the bank .
comptroller : inmates in ny jails received benefits sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 21 pm edt why liberal groups say rep. dan maffei sided with tea party republicans to ’ shut down the government ’ mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 21 am edt police : son killed mother , self in upstate ny home sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 21 pm edt da : motorcyclist had key role in nyc suv brawl sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 21 pm edt hadassah plans pre-mother ’ s day bake sale tue apr 24 , 2012 12 : 21 pm edt scouts gather for camporee at county airport sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 21 am edt new cvs store to open oct .
27 sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 21 am edt alderman harkenrider seeks re-election thu oct 3 , 2013 4 : 21 pm edt salt sauna therapy business opens in hornell wed oct 2 , 2013 4 : 21 pm edt hornell salvation army prepping for christmas season tue oct 1 , 2013 6 : 21 pm edt saugerties taxpayers get break on bridge project mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt mohawk fd gearing up for fire prevention week sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 21 pm edt governor has not responded to fort plain superintendents letter sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 21 pm edt ' chapters of alfred dolge to be presented at dcs sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 21 pm edt police : son killed mother , self in upstate ny home sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 21 pm edt district wants to stomp out bullies sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 21 am edt coudersport couple charged in cattle scam sat oct 5 , 2013 12 : 21 pm edt six arrested as fugitives sat oct 5 , 2013 08 : 21 am edt cooperstown film fest set for trial run sat oct 5 , 2013 08 : 21 am edt catskill outdoor festival to kick off sat oct 5 , 2013 08 : 21 am edt re-elect loella leclair mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 21 am edt volney home damaged in fire mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt learning the ropes mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt catamounts down acadia in exhibition finale mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 21 am edt publisher , millbrook resident harper ann sedgwick to be remembered at service mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 21 am edt gop aims to recruit monroe county latinos wed sep 25 , 2013 10 : 21 pm edt schumer calls for improved communication at 43 upstate va sites wed sep 25 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt zoo society ’ s longtime leader to retire wed sep 25 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt annual run for the roc 5k benefits saratoga hospital sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt boces serves up feast at oktoberfest scholarship fundraiser sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt all the worlds a classroom for waldorf school students sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt teen kidnap victim elizabeth smart in new book : abductor raved about god but made her sex slave mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 21 am edt yale searches for stinker adding feces to dryers sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 21 pm edt allegany county sheriff ’ s office : the cost of tough mudder sat oct 5 , 2013 12 : 21 pm edt coman hill elementary school in armonk closed monday due to water outage mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 21 am edt coman hill school in armonk closed monday due to water outage sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 21 pm edt shops at nanuet ready for opening sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 21 pm edt flood-prone saw mill parkway section to be repaved sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 21 pm edt greenpeace russia lawyer : " the icebreaker fulfills all the criteria of safety , but like any vessel requires constant monitoring and servicing by trained staff " if you see any of the following changes , bring them to your doctor 's attention : cover the entire breast from top to bottom , side to side — from your collarbone to the top of your abdomen , and from your armpit to your cleavage .
l ’ édification d ’ un etat de droit , démocratique , soucieux de la dignité de la personne humaine , de la sécurité et de la prospérité pour tous. la priorité dans la politique du cndd et sa part du budget passera à 15 & percnt .
elle obéira au principe de la modernisation par l ’ introduction de la mécanisation et des acquis de la recherche scientifique ; au principe de la diversification des cultures vivrières et industrielles et au principe de la rationalisation avec agricoles sera encouragée .
pour cela , le gouvernement cndd va créer cinq centres pilotes de développement intégré dans les cinq régions du pays : nord , sud , processus de développement endogène local .
a cet effet , il va de l ’ agriculture , de l ’ elevage et de la nutrition organisé en un secrétariat d ’ etat à la production agricole et à l ’ alimentation et un secrétariat d ’ etat à l ’ etat sur toute l ’ étendue de la république .
cela permettra de réduire sensiblement les conflits récurrents entre les citoyens et l ’ etat sur informées , formées et sensibilisées sur le travail agricole et sur sa éleveur suivra une formation dans ces domaines pour maîtriser son savoir faire dans ces deux secteurs vitaux du pays , la formation sera sanctionnée par un choix des espèces plus productives .
équilibrage entre les bananes à cuire et les veillera au choix de nouvelles boutures de manioc et combattra la maladie de la du maïs et du blé connaîtra une forte augmentation afin de combattre la faim et de pouvoir vendre aux industries et aux particuliers .
les boulangeries seront les haricots , les arachides , le soja , les petits pois : leur production sera augmentée pour procurer à la population des protéines et pouvoir vendre aux industries .
les patates douces et les pommes de terre : nous allons sélectionner les espèces les plus résistantes et les plus rentables .
les palmiers à huile : mieux étudier les potentiels alimentaire et industriel du palmier à huile , organiser une meilleure distribution de l ’ huile de palme .
le riz : augmenter la production pour en limiter les importations .
les légumes et les fruits : production et procurer le pays les devises dont il a besoin , le cndd va formation et de l ’ information , ces techniciens seront orientés vers les pays production et lutter contre la contrebande , les prix d ’ achat au planteur seront encouragés à prendre des actions dans les coopératives , sociétés de fournis pour apporter un maximum de valeur ajoutée par transformation de développement seront gérées sous forme de coopératives .
la population des le cndd s ’ engage à encourager la production , la transformation , la conservation , la commercialisation et la distribution des produits agricoles pour garantir la sécurité alimentaire de la population .
a cette fin , le cndd envisage d ’ élaborer des programmes régionaux de développement pour exploiter au maximum les opportunités de spécialisation régionale dans la production agricole , de créer des offices de produits vivriers et réhabiliter la fête agricole .
de plus le cndd va encourager , par des mesures fiscales et réglementaires , la création des coopératives d ’ achat d ’ intrants agricoles et de commercialisation des produits agricoles .
pour redonner l ’ honneur à l ’ agriculture il sera instauré une fête nationale de l ’ agriculture. ainsi que la lutte contre l ’ érosion et les sols acides , l ’ utilisation des semences sélectionnées ( à l ’ exclusion des ogm ) , la modernisation des outils rationalisation des circuits des produits agricoles , la régulation des prix des produits agricoles en vue d ’ une juste rémunération et la transformation équipements agricoles .
le cndd assurera donc l ’ accès aux prêts pour la afin de permettre au monde rural d ’ épargner en sécurité .
il veillera à la micro-crédit sur tout le territoire burundais , à la création d ’ un fonds de agences de crédit agricole dans toutes les provinces pour augmenter l ’ accès du monde rural à l ’ épargne ainsi qu ’ à la garantie de la totalité de provinciales de crédit agricole seront des centres d ’ excellence en matière de données , de recherches et d ’ analyses des économies locales afin de mieux en matière d ’ élevage , le cndd s ’ engage à encadrer et à former les éleveurs , promouvoir la recherche d ’ espèces plus productives et résistantes , encourager la création des coopératives d ’ éleveurs et à faciliter leur accès aux crédits , repérer et aménager des zones d ’ élevage pour le petit et le gros bétail , introduire l ’ usage à large échelle des plantes fourragères , promouvoir la pisciculture et la culture des algues marines lacustres sur les lacs , protéger les espèces marines lacustres ainsi que les zones de pêche. élaborer une carte d ’ aménagement du territoire burundais dans son entièreté .
dans ce but , il va créer un ministère de l ’ aménagement du territoire et de l ’ environnement ( ou ministère du développement durable ) , mettre en place une naturelles du pays et élaborer un plan directeur d ’ aménagement du territoire prévoyant l ’ implantation des villages , des centres urbains , des pistes rurales , des routes d ’ intérêt régional , y compris les chemins de fer. organisée dans la capitale et en province .
il sera créé des écoles et instituts spécialisés ainsi qu ’ une garde chargée de faire respecter les codes de l ’ industrie , aux routes et autres infrastructures sociales .
les zones destinées publics et privés ainsi que l ’ espace réservé à la construction des habitations pour les citoyens seront déterminées par la loi .
a bujumbura et dans toutes les villes du burundi , une zone dite & bdquo ; aire administrative « sera déterminée .
cœur de l ’ administration , il y sera érigé les grands bâtiments publics abritant les administrations de l ’ etat .
cela évitera la dispersion des services de l ’ etat. pour l ’ étude et la mise en exécution de ce programme. gestion de l ’ environnement passera par le choix d ’ énergies non polluantes , l ’ entretien des parcs nationaux , des aires et des espèces protégées , une politique de collecte et de traitement des déchets industriels et ménagers , une campagne soutenue de reboisement des espaces arides et des bordures des axes routiers , le tout s ’ appuyant sur une éducation des citoyens à la bonne des rivières et des lacs , notamment le lac tanganyika sera menée. en place un système de ramassage et de traitement des déchets : eaux matière de préservation de l ’ environnement et inciter les industries à de sécurité de l ’ environnement .
il s ’ appliquera à la réhabilitation des banlieues contre l ’ exclusion et la bidonvilisation ; ainsi qu ’ à la conservation et à l ’ utilisation durable de la biodiversité ( faune et flore ) , notamment celle du lac tanganyika et des autres réserves naturelles , par la généralisation des méthodes de protection de l ’ environnement , du maintien et de la restauration de s ’ engage à réhabiliter les réserves naturelles et le reboisement de tous les sommets , plantation des arbres permettant d ’ enrichir et de protéger les sols comme le neem , les bambous , les arbres fruitiers … ainsi il sera instauré moins une journée de travaux communautaires par mois et un service national pour le reboisement de tout le pays en trois ans et encourager toute personne physique ou morale ou collectivité locale qui se sera illustrée dans le projet de protection et de dépollution des rivières et des lacs , notamment le attention particulière sera attirée pour préserver la faune et la flore burundi a été coupé , transformé en bois de chauffage et vendu parfois à l ’ étranger .
cela a eu comme conséquence l ’ irrégularité des pluies et la du pays qui a déjà commencé dans la province de kirundo et qui a déjà fait de allons mettre sur pied un programme de reboisement du pays .
les arbres comme les eucalyptus qui appauvrissent le sol par la consommation de grandes quantités d ’ eau et dont les effets négatifs sont la diminution des nappes phréatiques be sure to read the new york times backgrounder on how a consortium of conservative groups — kochs , club for growth and more — have been conspiring and spending huge ...
lawmakers review charity care as an alternative to medicaid expansion by using nytimes.com and nytimes products , you are agreeing to our terms of service . 2.1 .
cancellation and refunds of digital subscriptions 2.2 .
cancellation and refunds of one-time purchases you are not required to purchase anything in order to use nytimes.com or nytimes apps .
if you do not purchase a subscription or product , your access to nytimes content and services will be limited .
discount eligibility is determined at the time of the order .
discounts cannot be applied retroactively .
if a stated price is determined by us in our sole discretion to be in error , we are not under any obligation to offer you the product at that price .
we will notify you of the error and give you the opportunity to cancel your order and obtain a refund if payment has already been made .
you are required to provide your payment details when you sign up for a promotion .
at the end of the promotion , you will automatically be signed up for the related subscription or purchase that will begin at the end of the promotional period .
we will not notify you in advance that the promotion is about to end .
to cancel and avoid being charged , you must notify us before the promotion ends .
we reserve the right to issue refunds or credits at our sole discretion .
if we issue a refund or credit , we are under no obligation to issue the same or similar refund in the future .
we reserve the right to suspend or terminate your subscription or product for any reason , with or without notice and without further obligation .
you will not be entitled to a refund in these circumstances .
if any or all of our digital products are temporarily unavailable , you will not receive a refund .
we reserve the right to issue refunds or credits at our sole discretion .
if we issue a refund or credit , we are under no obligation to issue the same or similar refund in the future .
if any or all of our digital products are temporarily unavailable , you will not receive a refund .
we reserve the right to issue refunds or credits at our sole discretion .
if we issue a refund or credit , we are under no obligation to issue the same or similar refund in the future .
still , rosenfeld welcomes the new focus on fashion .
" birkenstocks with white socks was hideous back then , and it hasn 't gotten any better , " he said .
" it 's time to up the ante . "
at a press conferencemark zuckerberg speaks to reporters at harvard university in cambridge , massachusetts .
can 't speak for him , but for me they are comfortable , and when i need to go heads down on some tech work , i can put in my ear buds , flip up my hoodie , and people generally know to stay away , and i have fewer visual distractions as well .
the business suit is the uniform of the oppressor .
casual apathy regarding the way you dress reflects contempt for the superficial .
and the goal of the oppressed is to become the oppressor shouldn 't this inane story be in the fashion section instead of tech ?
we second jk , political will core to realisation of mdgs youth of the week : ' in the face of new diseases use biotechnology ' brewers organise dar archrivals tie tanzania breweries limited has organised a dar es salaam derby between archrivals young africans and simba to be played at the national stadium on december 14 full story crossing mighty kilombero to see new ' mosquito-perfume ' factory : a ferry boat arrives on the kilombero river northern bank .
i am one of the passengers coming from the ulanga ( district ) side dk .
bilal afungua kongamano la 6 la kimataifa la madaktari wananfunzi tuiteros posicionan etiqueta # chavezbatallaperfectaeste lunes , cuando se cumple un año de la victoria presidencial de hugo chávez el 7 de octubre de 2012 , el pueblo en twitter conmemora el triunfo revolucionario con la ... barrientos : chávez nos dio las herramientas para continuar la revolución bolivarianael comandante hugo chávez preparó al pueblo y le dio las herramientas para la continuidad de la revolución bolivariana , afirmó este lunes el ministro para el despacho de ... inspectores socialistas contra la corrupción recorrieron parroquias caraqueñas ayer domingocon el fin de hacerle frente a la corrupción , el cuerpo de inspectores socialistas visitó ayer domingo las parroquias caraqueñas el valle , antímano y san bernardino , ...
barrientos : chávez nos dio las herramientas para continuar la revolución bolivariana inspectores socialistas contra la corrupción recorrieron parroquias caraqueñas ayer domingo mp articula directamente con el ejecutivo para combatir la corrupción el ministerio público ( mp ) realiza acciones directas junto con el ejecutivo nacional para combatir los delitos relacionados con la corrupción , y así reforzar la lucha emprendida por el estado venezolano contra este flagelo presidente maduro : el mejor homenaje a chávez es luchar siempre el mejor homenaje para honrar el legado del líder de la revolución bolivariana , hugo chávez , es " luchar siempre " , destacó este domingo el presidente de la república , nicolás maduro villegas : las mujeres son el músculo fundamental de la participación protagónica la mujer venezolana tiene un rol preponderante y protagónico en los asuntos colectivos que inciden en el desarrollo del país , destacó el candidato socialista a la alcaldía mayor del distrito metropolitano de caracas , ernesto villegas jorge rodríguez : chávez , tu nombre está regado y se volvió patria el alcalde de caracas recalcó que el pensamiento transformador del comandante dio pie a una nueva batalla por la independencia a la que calificó como el comienzo de una nueva batalla de carabobo , que coronó con el triunfo socialista del 7 de octubre de 2012 banco del pueblo dará microcréditos a emprendedores de cinco estados del país tsj participó en jornada socialista de proyectos comunitarios en caracas ( en fotos ) así conmemoró el pueblo bolivariano un año de la victoria del 7-o maduro : venezuela tiene un gobierno popular representado por hombres y mujeres del pueblo comandante chávez ha pasado a la historia como el gran líder de la nueva democracia cover story : moving up the risk curve ~ gentleman pig farmer ~ mad max watches ~ schwarzman 's scholars ~ wearable history ~ spa vs. spa ~ the flying mansion ~ my lambo lap ~ hollywood 's banker ~ protect ipo windfalls with a trust ~ more states lower taxes ~ trend spotting : the latest fashions and passions .
heads of the sco member states signed the bishkek declaration president almazbek atambayev met with his chinese counterpart xi jinping жалал-абад облусундагы 132 жалпы билим берүүчү мектептери интернет булагына туташтырылган т.сатылганов атындагы кыргыз улуттук филармониясында жарандык авиация күнүнүн 80 жылдыгына арналган салтанат болду christian beddies informed president atambayev on the results of work of the imf mission christian beddies informed president atambayev on the results of work of the imf mission economy president almazbek atambayev is taking part in a session of csto collective security council the state and prospects of development of kyrgyz-bangladesh relations discussed in bishkek mfa of the kr supported the idea of bringing afghanistan into closer dialogue and cooperation with the ccts kyrgyz police ready to assist in investigation of the murder of family in the north of tajikistan health week to be held in kyrgyzstan in the first half of 2014 at the initiative of the turkish side ministry of health of the kr assures that there is no bubonic plague epidemic 100 kyrgyz sportsmen to take part in the 3rd eurasian sports in almaty 2011 all rights reserved . © copyright kabar national news agency © software support by expresskg iaa à tel aviv , si vous voulez vous faire soigner , il faudra d 'abord prouver que le 1er juillet 2013 , gabi barbash , directeur du centre médical ichilov à tel aviv , fait circuler des instructions pour interdire l ’ accès aux immigrés ou aux réfugiés africains désirant rendre visite à des patients , sauf en cas d ’ urgence .
officiellement pour des raisons de santé publique , afin de & bdquo ; minimiser les risques pour la santé des patients et du personnel « , rapporte le quotidien les africains venus pour une hospitalisation , des examens ou des soins médicaux sont cependant autorisés à entrer , explique le site .
les parents d ’ enfants malades ou les maris de femmes en travail peuvent également accéder à — patients et visiteurs — doivent subir une radio de la poitrine pour prouver qu ’ ils ne sont pas porteurs de la tuberculose , apprend-on encore .
a l ’ intérieur même de l ’ hôpital , les patients se voient discriminés , ajoute haaretz : les femmes enceintes et les enfants d ’ immigrés sont placés dans un espace séparé du reste de la maternité ou de l ’ aile pédiatrique .
selon un responsable d ’ ichilov , cette directive n ’ a qu ’ un but purement médical , réduire les risques de contagion .
en effet , d ’ après le quotidien maariv , en 2012 , 15 israéliens ont été diagnostiqués de la tuberculose contre 65 africains .
cette maladie nécessite la mise en place d ’ une quarantaine , d ’ un personnel spécifique et de soins individuels très coûteux , explique l ’ article .
la direction de l ’ hôpital ichilov se plaint depuis plusieurs années de devoir prodiguer un grand nombre de traitements médicaux aux migrants et aux réfugiés sans aucune compensation financière , avance haaretz .
pourtant , d ’ après le trésor public israélien , le coût supplémentaire engendré par ces patients est négligeable par rapport à ce que rapporte l ’ activité de l ’ hôpital .
d ’ après maariv , le nombre d ’ immigrés africains clandestins à tel aviv est estimé à 80.000 , soit environ 15 & percnt de la population .
beaucoup d ’ entre eux ont besoin de soins intensifs , notamment parce que le taux de naissances prématurées est deux fois plus élevé chez les africains que pour le reste de la population , en plus de la tuberculose , ils sont aussi particulièrement touchés par d ’ autres maladies : la population africaine représente un tiers des nouveaux porteurs du sida en israël et la moitié des diagnostics de malaria , indique la pauvreté dans laquelle vivent ces travailleurs clandestins ne fait qu ’ empirer leurs problèmes de santé , contractés dans leur pays d ’ origine et aggravés durant le voyage jusqu ’ en israël , déplore gabi barbash , qui estime à environ 50 millions de nis ( plus de 10 millions d ’ euros ) par an les frais la mesure discriminante répond-elle donc à une problématique économique ou de santé publique ?
autre perspective , plus sombre , elle ne serait qu ’ un témoignage the two snowmobiles quickly turn to small specks on the white snowfield .
mountaineer brian mccullough is in the lead , a thick rope secures his machine to one driven by scientist stephen hasiotis .
the two men are also harnessed and roped together .
they ’ re making the first snowmobile traverse on this route to a feature called wahl glacier .
a trail from a large field camp in the central transantarctic mountains had led them more than halfway , threading through a crevasse field , and up and down rises in the valley .
now they ’ re in virgin territory , and mccullough expertly steers to a large rock outcrop the team has dubbed " the castle ” near wahl glacier .
hasiotis , a paleontologist from the university of kansas , hopes to add to an already impressive trove of finds based on previous reports of fossils in the area .
hasiotis isn ’ t your typical antarctic fossil hunter .
having signed ' completion point ' certificates under duress in the course of 1999 , he quit the imf earlier than the end of his tenure , but was later canvassed to help to ' fight poverty . '
report of the secretary-general on the situation in abyei ( s / 2013 / 577 ) unhcr says it is " stretched to the limit " by the rising number of refugees revue de presse humanitaire au tchad du 27 septembre au 03 octobre 2013 he added that the residents of those areas now refrain to go to their farmlands , out of fear for indiscriminate aerial bombardments .
speaking to radio dabanga , a resident of el geneina said that it is difficult to find one household in which no one is suffering from malaria or typhoid .
hibiscus is an edible flower and can be made into paper or used to make tea .
blacksmiths were trained by undp to make tools for hibiscus production .
speaking to radio miraya , iom operations officer , meriam mutalu said the returnees started travelling on friday and will arrive in juba in two weeks ’ time .
he explained that the returnees are coming in four barges .
a fire at the immunisation office in ed daein , the capital of east darfur , has destroyed all vaccines stored in the building .
world + 10 others comparaison des dépenses réelles de consommation des ménages et des niveaux de prix en afrique les responsables des instituts statistiques nationaux ont convenu , dans la déclaration d ’ accra de 2008 , d ’ intégrer le pci dans leurs travaux statistiques usuels .
un pci annuel à grande échelle n ’ étant pas envisageable pour la plupart des pays , la bad a développé un programme réduit visant à faire des mises à jour annuelles des dernières comparaisons de référence et à aider les pays à renforcer leurs capacités statistiques dans les domaines clés de la comptabilité nationale et des statistiques de prix .
world + 10 others la producción mundial de cereales aumentará este año un 8 por ciento siria , la república centroafricana y la r.d. del congo afectadas por una grave inseguridad alimentaria chad + 3 others revue de presse humanitaire au tchad du 27 septembre au 03 octobre 2013 mobilisation de l 'onu pour mettre en œuvre la stratégie intégrée pour le sahel ( onu , 27 / 09 / 13 ) tchad : rentrée scolaire sur de nouvelles bases ( xinhua , 3 03 / 10 / 13 ) l ’ ue rejette le projet transaqua pour la remise en eau du lac tchad ( solidarité & progrès , 02 / 10 / 13 ) august 24 , 2013 st thomas , usvi -- governor john de jongh said on friday he shares the concerns of the aviation industry on st croix , which has warned the us virgin islands ’ elected leaders that continued air traffic to the island can be jeopardized by the planned shutdown of the hovensa facility .
kuwait — shaikh sabah al ahmed al jabir al sabah , emir of kuwait , received a written message from his majesty sultan qaboos .
the message was handed over by shaikh salim bin suhail al maashani , sultanate ’ s ambassador to kuwait when shaikh ali al jarrah al & # 8230 ; in addition to sponsoring the exhibition , dow will participate on the panel of speakers at the conference technical sessions by delivering a paper entitled " microbial control management for oil and gas recovery operation " on october 6 .
for decades , former scientologist leah remini has kept quiet about what she witnessed as a member of the controversial church .
but just as she was about to tell all in & hellip ; readon former glee cast member dianna agron was not invited to appear on the show & # 8217 ; s tribute episode for the late cory monteith , and radaronline.com has exclusively learned it & # 8217 ; s because co-stars & hellip ; readon kris jenner reveals daughter khloe kardashian is ‘ staying strong ’ in wake of lamar odom drug & cheating scandals old feuds die hard , as bad blood between the giudices & gorgas boils up again on rhonj reunion show khloe kardashian had mansion searched for drugs after kicking out lamar odom in the days after khloe kardashian kicked love rat husband lamar odom out of their tarzana , calif. mansion , she hired someone to search the house for any drugs that the & hellip ; readon bones stars david boreanaz and emily deschanel will wed on-screen on the october 21 episode of the fox series , but production & hellip ; readon why wouldn ’ t she be naked , she has an ‘ awesome body ’ declares miley cyrus ’ pilates instructor mari winsor now that is beautiful !
christina aguilera is back in the red chair on the voice looking spectacular with her super slimmed down figure , which two top doctors estimate to radaronline.com & hellip ; readon mean girls star lindsay lohan has checked into rehab a whopping six times and is now considering opening her own treatment center and naming & hellip ; readon the troubled 15-year-old has been holed up at the exclusive school & hellip ; readon adam carolla recently picked up a $ 2.96 million home in the la cañada-flintridge area of los angeles , and we & # 8217 ; ve got a look at the property for you right here & hellip ; readon don & # 8217 ; t take it literally !
sometimes movie lines can get a bit lost in translation , and we & # 8217 ; ve got a look at the funniest mix-ups , right here on radaronline.com. & hellip ; readon bethenny frankel clobbered by queen latifah in talk show rating wars queen latifah is the new queen of daytime talk shows and gave bethenny frankel a solid throttling in the ratings the first weeks their two shows were on the air . & hellip ; readon britney spears has confessed to feeling pressured to be super-sexy in her music videos and to finding it increasingly difficult to be a & # 8220 ; sexy mom . & # 8221 ; & hellip ; readon miley cyrus knows how to throw a party and how to make fun of herself and she did them both in a knocked-it-out-of-the-park hosting gig on saturday night live . & hellip ; readon why so shy ?
kim kardashian hides her face after beauty treatment the bachelorette week in review : sean lowe and catherine giudici ’ s engagement party , melissa rycroft on bethenny and more ! © 2013 radar online , llc | privacy policy | terms of use the utility company ’ s communication manager badra masoud said yesterday that the blackout which occurred on monday in the city was due to a failure of a transformer at ubungo substation and pin insulator ’ s flush at one of steel poles of northern kinondoni region circuit .
subscribe to costa blanca news ; costa levante news ; costa almeria news or costa del sol news and join the group of people who are best informed about living in spaindigital subscription ( e-paper ) with an e-paper subscription you can read your paper on line , where and whenever you wish.order form > > > newspaper samplewould you like to peruse one of our newspapers briefly ? here you can read one of our old editions to enable you to get to know the paper .
sample e-paper > > > new sevenoaks skipper ollie robinson says the early signs are promising but he is refusing to get too carried away ahead of the new rugby ...
february 21 , 2013 philipsburg , st maarten -- the island of st martin and st maarten now has a free app for iphone and android in four languages , providing comprehensive and current information about what ’ s happening and is interesting for visitors and locals .
suspect arrested in deaths of us couple in st maarten joint central bank quarrel escalates between curacao and st maarten al qaeda leader al libi caught in libya sun oct 6 , 2013 08 : 13 am edt nebraska fugitives nabbed in newton mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt dart offers unlimited free bus rides in des moines sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 13 am edt a seemingly improbable alliance between the ffs and fln parties - it was announced in a letter to ffs leader hocine ait ahmed by the fln ’ s boss , amar saadani on sept . ( ... )
named chief of cma cgm algerie in august , marc messana , a graduate of france ’ s st cyr military academy , inherited a load of trouble . ( ... )
changes are continuing at the top of algeria ’ s departement du renseignement et de la securite ( drs ) .
the surprise appointment of general ali bendaoud as boss of the direction de la ( ... )
hamed koffi zarour has emerged as one of the most active lobbyists in touting algerian ( ... )
a specialist in algeria ’ s oil industry , sadek boussena is presently being courted ( ... )
rejoicewith us as we continue our celebrations in honor of the canonization of st. kateri tekakwitha on october 21 , 2012 .
the diocese of duluth sent five representativesto rome for this festive occasion .
they were joined by 800 , 000 other pilgrims in rome for the canonization ofour seven new saints .
to bishop paul sirba , the bureau of catholic indian missions office , and the many contributions frommembers of the diocese of duluthand elsewhere we thank youfor this wonderful gift and assure you that you were present in our prayers as we made our pilgrimagein italy .
you were there as we received the special blessings fromthe holy father and at eachmass .
may st. kateri tekakwitha continue to walk with us as we strive to imitate her in reaching out to the young , our elders , and the sick and hold close to our hearts her devotions to jesus on the cross and to his mother .
reservations within the diocese of duluth : bois forte reservationfond du lac reservationgrand portage reservationleech lake reservationmille lacs reservation prof. mircea cinteză , ph.d. , a prominent cardiologist with extensive experience , is a professor of cardiology and internal medicine with the cardiology and internal medicine department of the “ carol davila ” medical and pharmacy university in bucharest ; head of the cardiology ward of the bucharest university emergency hospital ; since 1996 he has been a member of the “ carol davila ” medical and pharmacy university board of professors ; between 1997 and 2007 he was the chairman of the romanian college of physicians ; in 2004-2008 he was the dean of the “ carol davila ” medical and pharmacy university ; in 2004-2005 he was the public health minister ; in 2004-2011 he was a member of the senate of romania .
« previous „ venitul unui medic ar trebui să fie de trei ori mai mare decât venitul mediu pe economie “ interviu cu prof. univ. dr mircea cinteză next valea timocului este o zonă în care românii au continuitate încă de la ocupaţia romană interviu cu domnul tiberius puiu © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpressimagine that ! - barrons.com afghanistan women ’ s security and participation important for next year ’ s afghan polls to be credible – kubiš of privacy and our company will act accordingly .
see faqs 世界新聞網-北美華文新聞 、 華商資訊 - 世界播fun室 職棒季後賽 運動家隊奪分區冠軍 專訪 劉庠 談小規模球隊如何生存 小市場的奧克蘭運動家隊 , 如何能拿分區冠軍 ? 如何又能經營下去 ? 聽聽劉庠的分析 小本經營卻拿下重要成就的運動家隊確定在美聯西區封王 ， 打進季後賽 ， 再現 「 魔球 」 傳奇 。 （ 美聯社 ） & # 160 ; 你吃了黴 ？ ！ 柏克萊加大授權世界日報推出 食物發霉就應該丟掉嗎 ？ 如果把發霉的地方切掉 ， 剩下的部分還可以吃嗎 ？ 有些黴菌吃了很安全 ， 有些則對人體有害 。 製作藍乳酪所需要的黴菌是安全的 ， 然而有些食物上毛茸茸的黴菌則是有毒的 ， 一般而言 ， 生長在穀類上的黴菌是最毒的 。 發黴的橙 ( 網路圖片 ) 發黴果醬 ( 網路圖片 ) 除了肉眼可看見的菌體之外 ， 線狀的菌絲與黴菌產生的毒素可穿透食物 ， 且烹煮無法破壞黴菌毒素 ， 對於體質較弱的人特別危險 。 發黴水果 ( 網路圖片 ) 發黴麵包 ( 網路圖片 ) 發黴麵包 ( 網路圖片 ) 你的肝該減肥了嗎 ？ 【 柏克萊加大授權世界日報推出 】 你可能知道 ， 長期大量飲酒會造成肝臟受損 ， 甚至可能會造成脂肪肝 （ 醫學名詞稱為酒精性脂肪肝炎 ） 。 然而 ， 若不常喝酒 ， 甚至完全不喝酒 ， 還是可能罹患脂肪肝 。 因為非酒精性脂肪肝的盛行率急速增加 ， 最近已成為媒體的關注焦點 。 肝臟 ( 網路圖片 ) 脂肪肝 ( 網路圖片 董氏基金會 ) & # 160 ; 非酒精性脂肪肝是一連串身體功能失序所產生的疾病 ； 當肝臟處理脂肪 （ 三酸甘油酯 ） 有問題時 ， 就會發生此疾病 ， 而導致脂肪堆積在肝臟組織中 。 非酒精性脂肪肝是 「 沉默 」 的疾病 ， 很少會有跡象或症狀 ， 也不太會出現併發症 ， 但可能會隨著時間惡化 ， 造成疲勞 、 虛弱 、 食慾不振 、 噁心 、 腹痛或黃疸 （ 皮膚和眼睛發黃 ） 等症狀 。 肝臟 ( 網路圖片 ) 脂肪肝 ( 網路圖片 號角月報澳門版 ) продинфо - новости : беларусь станет основным поставщиком картофеля на рынок татарстана - продовольственный рынок беларуси беларусь станет основным поставщиком картофеля на рынок татарстана12 августа 2010татарстан рассматривает беларусь в качестве основного поставщика картофеля на свой рынок .
об этом сообщил сегодня журналистам в минске президент татарстана рустам минниханов , передает белта .
на первом этапе в татарстан из беларуси планируется поставить 40 тыс.т картофеля .
в президент татарстана особо подчеркнул , что страна заинтересована в закупке и белорусского зерна . & # 34 ; ситуация с аномальной жарой отрицательно сказалась на сельском хозяйстве татарстана , особенно на тех регионах , где развито растениеводство & # 34 ; , - рассказал он .
в связи с этим татарстан рассматривает возможность закупки в беларуси от 100 тыс.т до 500 тыс.т зерна в разной форме - фураж , комбикорма и т.д. & # 34 ; потребности в фуражном зерне у нас большие , и мы рассчитываем в этом плане на беларусь & # 34 ; , - сказал в свою очередь премьер-министр беларуси сергей сидорский заверил в том , что беларусь полностью обеспечит тот заказ , который сформирует татарстан .
это прежде всего поставки картофеля .
беларусь также выполнит договоренности по поставкам на оптовые склады татарстана автомобильной техники . & # 34 ; помимо этого мы сегодня обсудили вопросы критических товарных групп - коснулись вопросов поставок сахара , сельскохозяйственных ярмарок в татарстане .
президент этой страны уже взял на себя обязательства по содействию в проведении таких мероприятий .
по словам сергея сидорского , на осенних ярмарках беларусь будет торговать основными видами сельхозпродукции , в том числе капустой , свеклой , картофелем .
планируется также , что в татарстане будут представлены и товары легкой промышленности беларуси . & # 34 ; у них высокое качество и “ our population was declining , and we just had too much school administration , ” baldacci said in an interview with stateline .
“ putting ( school consolidation ) into the budget irritated the superintendents and the school boards , but i wanted to make sure we actually got it done . ”
“ we were forced to do it or incur penalties , and there were no incentives , ” smith said . “ consolidation is a hard sell to constituents , ” said mckeveny , who did not take a position on the merger .
“ every superintendent said ‘ consolidation is long overdue , but can you wait until i leave to do it ? ’ ”
baldacci said .
“ maybe we didn ’ t come up with exactly the right partners for consolidation , but through this , we told them , ‘ we ’ re not going to just send you a check and then turn our backs anymore . ’ ” “ it ’ s also helpful if the two districts aren ’ t athletic rivals , and if there ’ s a perception of equal opportunity to gain , ” he said . familiarity also helped with the successful merger of the two western kansas school districts of greensburg and mullinville .
plus , a two-mile-wide tornado had all but wiped greensburg off the map in 2007 .
“ it wasn ’ t them coming to us or us going to them , it was all new , ” said darin headrick , the superintendent of kiowa county schools . mwenyekiti wa chadema freeman mbowe ahutubia mkutano mkuu wa chama cha conservative denmark the two snowmobiles quickly turn to small specks on the white snowfield .
mountaineer brian mccullough is in the lead , a thick rope secures his machine to one driven by scientist stephen hasiotis .
the two men are also harnessed and roped together .
they ’ re making the first snowmobile traverse on this route to a feature called wahl glacier .
a trail from a large field camp in the central transantarctic mountains had led them more than halfway , threading through a crevasse field , and up and down rises in the valley .
now they ’ re in virgin territory , and mccullough expertly steers to a large rock outcrop the team has dubbed " the castle ” near wahl glacier .
hasiotis , a paleontologist from the university of kansas , hopes to add to an already impressive trove of finds based on previous reports of fossils in the area .
first , there ’ s the headgear — a worn , leather cowboy hat that stays as firmly on his pony-tailed head as indiana jones ’ fedora .
there ’ s also a bit of cowboy swagger in the first-generation greek-american , as well as an infectious enthusiasm for his work .
he ’ s quite eager to jump down onto his belly , arms and legs swinging , to illustrate how a burrowing critter that lived in a warmer antarctica long ago might have scurried and clawed through its underground home .
peter flaig is the team ’ s expert on those sediments .
his job is to put the trace fossils into context .
for example , if hasiotis spies what be believes are the swimming trails of a fish — where it might have settled on the sediment , leaving an imprint — flaig must determine if the sediment deposits indeed belong to a lake .
on " the castle ” outcrop , hasiotis is shouting for flaig , and a few expletives pepper his exclamations as he scrambles underneath an overhang on the castle-like outcrop near wahl glacier , which looks nearly sheer from this vantage point , a few bare rocks jutting out from the ice .
the blackened rock he displayed previously back at camp can only be one thing — fossilized charred wood .
the most well-accepted story of the period suggests that the climate shifted from wet and warm to dry and warmer at the boundary .
but those interpretations are inherently biased , based on the evidence at hand .
sedimentologists like flaig assume the triassic dried out based on the sand that filled the basin .
but so much of the evidence is covered by ice in today ’ s antarctica .
" trace fossils are like fingerprints .
they don ’ t tell you genus or species , but it can tell you horseshoe crab , ” he says .
" we ’ ve hit the jackpot on this trip between the tracks of animals we don ’ t even know about , the horseshoe crabs , and the small burrowing therapsids or reptiles . ”
nong khai map , udon thani map , sakhon nakhon map , nakon phanom map , cambodian border map big drug firms paid for access to fda painkiller meetings , e-mails say mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 16 am edt poll : what do you think of the vikings signing josh freeman ?
mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 16 am edt memorial held for u student found dead in lonsdale sun oct 6 , 2013 9 : 16 pm edt the fed shows the efficacy of qe in boosting asset prices .
but incomes and spending lag .
september 16meet the new fed boss , same as the old boss irin ’ s new film “ a scarred generation ” tells the story of two yemeni children - ahmad , now 16 , and amira , 12 .
both have been traumatized by conflict and are being treated at the al-amal hospital in sana ’ a .
guinea ’ s government has retained the services of sheila khama , who heads the extractive ( ... )
rothman is professor at yale university , schekman is a professor at the university of california at berkeley , while suedhof is a professor at stanford university .
eccb takeover of anguilla banks could end up in court april 11 , 2013 the valley , anguilla -- anguilla is one of the friendliest places in the caribbean and exploring its nooks and crannies can be great fun on your own .
but it ’ s even more rewarding when you ’ re sharing your discoveries and enjoying the island ’ s dining spots .
malian city of gao hit by mortar shells mon oct 7 , 2013 08 : 10 am edt malala ’ s mission : the malala fund mon oct 7 , 2013 07 : 40 am edt a u.s. default seen as catastrophe dwarfing lehmans fall mon oct 7 , 2013 07 : 10 am edt miley cyrus on ’ snl ’ : ’ hannah montana ’ is dead mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 30 am edt child hops flight to sin city alone mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 10 am edt nypd : bikers stomped on suv driver mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 10 am edt ’ women and children were burning ’ tue oct 1 , 2013 12 : 50 pm edt sisters of woman fatally shot in dc police chase say she was not delusional , tried to flee mon oct 7 , 2013 08 : 10 am edt malian city of gao hit by early morning mortar shells in 1st attack in months mon oct 7 , 2013 08 : 20 am edt in new term , supreme court may steer to right on key social issues sun oct 6 , 2013 08 : 20 am edt us forces capture a top al qaeda leader mon oct 7 , 2013 08 : 10 am edt kerry ’ very pleased ’ at syria weapons compliance mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 50 am edt 2,500-acre wildfire near camp pendleton is cooled by winds mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 40 am edt obamas absence leaves china as dominant force at apec mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 10 am edt supreme court has deep docket in its new term mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 30 am edt ariz. tribes bracing for sting of shutdown mon oct 7 , 2013 08 : 10 am edt obama ’ s day : a blank schedule mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 40 am edt in the loop : ruth bader ginsburg blames wine for sotu nap mon oct 7 , 2013 07 : 10 am edt taliban to pakistani malala yousafzai : youre still a target mon oct 7 , 2013 07 : 10 am edt westgate bado haijatoa somo viwanjani tanzania jumamosi ya septemba 21 , mwaka huu itabaki kuwa siku ya kukumbukwa katika historia ya kenya , ukanda wa afrika ya mashariki na hata afrika nzima kwa ujumla habari kamili elimu zaidi kuhusu risiti za mashine itolewe kwa umma kuepusha vurugu ajali zaua 14 wiki ya usalama ikianza .
kwa mwanzo huu usalama wa kweli barabarani utafikiwa ?
maisha ndivyo yalivyo : mke anapomgeuza mume gari la kuzoa majitaka !
mnadhimu mkuu wa kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni , tundu lissu , akizungumza na waandishi wa habari jijini dar es salaam jana , kuhusu muswada wa katiba .
kushoto ni mkurugenzi wa operesheni na mafunzo cha chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , benson kigaila . katiba moto mbivu na mbichi kuhusu muswada wa marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba zitajulikana leo wakati kamati ya kudumu ya bunge ya katiba , sheria na utawala , itakapokutana katika ofisi ndogo za bunge dar es salaam habari kamili watanzania waaswa kununua hisa dse watanzania wametakiwa kununua hisa zinazouzwa kwenye soko la hisa la dar es salaam ( dse ) kwa lengo la kumiliki sehemu ya kampuni zilizosajiliwa na kuongeza wigo wa uchumi na kukuza kipato habari kamili kizimbani kwa tuhuma za kuiibia airtel zaidi ya dola 500,000 ngasa aanza mambo yanga winga mrisho ngasa alifunga goli lake la kwanza tangu arejee yanga na akampikia jingine didier kavumbagu wakati alipoiongoza klabu yake hiyo ya jangwani kushinda 2-0 dhidi ya timu ngumu ya mtibwa sugar kwenye uwanja wa taifa jijini dar es salaam jana habari kamili tusiyaenzi ya mwalimu nyerere kinafiki : bado siku saba tu ili taifa liadhimishe miaka 14 tangu baba wa taifa mwalimu nyerere alipofariki , nakumbuka matukio ya wakati yanayoibuka katika sakata la bandari : kwa muda mrefu kumekuwa na usiri unaoficha mambo yanayoendelea mamlaka ya bandari tanzania ( tpa ) .
jitihada hizo zinazolenga wasichana waelimishwe kukwepa mimba za utotoni : wanafunzi mabinti wanapopata mimba hulazimika kukatiza masomo na ndoto zao za kufanikiwa kupitia elimu huzimika .
mimba wapinzani acheni upotoshaji , tumieni hekima : mchakato wa katiba mpya unaoendelea nchini umefikia pazuri baada ya rais jakaya kikwete kueleza kuwa mambo yanayoibuliwa mlinzi wa mchakato wa katiba mpya ni rais au mwenyekiti wa tume ? : malumbano yamesikika hivi karibuni kati ya mwenyekiti wa tume ya kuratibu maoni ya katiba , jiji joseph warioba , na mwenyekiti mwamalanga : wapimeni damu vigogo wanaobwia ' unga ' : tanzania ipo kwenye vita dhidi ya mihadarati lakini matumizi ya dawa hizo miongoni mwa vijana yanaongezeka .
juhudi muungano wa upinzani : mbowe onyesha uzalendo , vunja baraza la mawaziri kivuli bungeni : vyama vitatu ; chadema nccr-mageuzi na cuf hivi karibuni viliitisha mkutano wa hadhara katika viwanja vya jangwani na kuhudhuriwa mlevi akutana na jk new york : mwenzenu ninapoandika waraka huu niko new york , makao makuu ya umoja wa mataifa .
jiji ambalo hujulikana kama ’ apple . ’
pata kibonzo chako kila siku toka kwa kabwela , the flexibles na dogo luninga na redio o operaţiune internaţională împotriva siriei este iminentă .
toate declaraţiile politice , toate mişcările de trupe , nave de război , avioane , toate evenimentele din ultimele două săptămâni indică acelaşi lucru .
avertismentele rusiei şi iranului de duminică demonstrează că în orientul mijlociu se joacă o partidă uriaşă de poker geopolitic .
doar un miracol poate amâna confruntarea .
polonia – un model de eficienţă şi pragmatism în diplomaţia europeană nu trebuie să fii un foarte subtil analist de politică externă pentru a observa că statutul şi vizibilitatea poloniei pe scena politică europeană s-au modificat substanţial în ultimii ani , după venirea la putere , în anul 2007 , a tandemului liberal tusk-sikorski .
în mod cert , fenomenul se datorează deopotrivă consensului politic intern , dar şi unor eforturi diplomatice susţinute .
răspunsul domnului jose manel barroso la scrisoarea preşedintelui emil constantinescu vă mulţumim pentru scrisoarea dumneavoastră pe care am primit-o în data de 27 iulie 2012 , în care prezentaţi opinia dumneavoastră cu privire la reacţia comisiei europene la evoluţia situaţiei politice şi instituţionale din această vară în românia .
permiteţi-mi să clarific faptul că acţiunile comisiei ca răspuns la aceste evoluţii sunt ...
summit-ul nato – un prohod şi o renaştere mereu amânate reuniunea anuală a membrilor alianţei nord-atlantice este programată a avea loc în perioada 20-21 mai 2012 , ţara-gazdă fiind de această dată statele unite ale americii .
o reuniune aniversară am putea spune , summit-ul nato ajungând în acest an la ediţia cu numărul 25 ( un număr oficial primesc doar întâlnirile considerate tradiţionale , nu şi cele excepţionale ) .
problemele economice profunde şi de solvabilitate în grecia , spania , portugalia şi irlanda constituie un risc grav pentru sistemul bancar european .
datoriile suverane ale acestor ţări sunt de aproximativ 2 trilioane de euro şi cea mai mare parte a acestor datorii sunt deţinute de bănci europene .
cristofobia & # 8211 ; toleranţa este pentru toată lumea , mai puţin pentru intoleranţi islamofobia păleşte în comparaţie cu cristofobia prezentă în majoritatea societăţilor musulmane .
auzim des musulmani plângându-se că sunt victime ale abuzului în occident , dar se vorbeşte puţin despre felul în care sunt tratate minorităţile religioase în lumea islamică , despre modul în care creştinii sunt ucişi din cauza religiei lor .
este un genocid în creştere care ar trebui ...
după luni de negocieri cu fostul secretar general al onu , kofi annan , şi deliberări extinse în consiliul de securitate al onu ostilităţile din siria continuă .
deşi violenţa generală a scăzut uşor , iar consiliul de observatori onu a crescut la 300 , regimul dictatorial al lui bashar al-assad ignoră cererea de „ încetare a focului ” .
afganistanul a fost tema principală a summit-ului nato de la chicago .
nu întâmplător !
după mai bine de zece ani de război , pierderi umane şi costuri materiale importante , alianţa nord-atlantică încearcă să pună punct unui conflict extrem de nepopular acasă .
fie că e vorba de ţări europene , din zona pacificului sau chiar de statele unite .
dar retragerea trupelor şi a materialului de ...
în ultima perioadă , întreaga europă pare a fi scandalizată de situaţia fostului premier al ucrainei , iulia timoşenko .
ucraina , căreia i se prevestea un luminos viitor european , a ajuns astăzi să fie comparată cu dictatura lui lucaşenko din belarus .
rusia : modernizare şi reformă – de la stolâpin la medvedev într-o moscovă aparent încremenită , la propriu şi la figurat , vladimir putin a părăsit biroul de la casa albă şi s-a îndreptat spre kremlin , unde îl aştepta dmitri medvedev pentru a-i preda funcţia încredinţată în urmă cu patru ani .
conform desfăşurătorului ceremoniei , drumul între cele două locaţii a durat 7 minute .
talks between orca exploration and the tanzanian government to double the amount of gas produced on songo songo are dragging on . ( ... )
the government in dar es salaam is investigating the affairs of around 200 tanzanians suspected of dissimulating some $ 196 million in swiss banks . ( ... )
the chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm , ruling party ) mp for the nzega constituency in the ( ... ) & ldquo ; niyonzima has asked for a few days off to settle those problems , & rdquo ; the official said , underlining that the club was doing all it can to help the player to recover and return to the pitch .
brandts has a choice on the starting line up between athuman idd and frank domayo in the polace of the rwanda international. fully functional new air condition unit .
the outside ribbing is made of can be moved in an instance by helicopter or truck & they can have any additions one wants. and strong we can incorporate any fittings and fixtures you want names and faces mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt wall street and the fed flying blind , and worried mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt business buzz : sarasota companies to try for x-prize tricorder entry mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 10 am edt pinellas multifamily for seniors attracts idaho investor fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt classic casserole to the rescue wed aug 7 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt masque theatre prepares ’ plaza suite ’ by neil simon wed oct 2 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt two blessings of animals scheduled in tampa wed oct 2 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt psnh to state supreme court : was bow plants mercury scrubber mandatory ?
mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt ohios mike oxley talks warren rudman , enron and investor confidence at unh law mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt fun , food and music all a part of apple harvest day mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt design process for stratham town center set to begin fri oct 4 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt homicide in hampton shakes up beach residents sat oct 5 , 2013 3 : 19 pm edt lori ruest appointed to key post fri oct 4 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt red sox in sweep position today mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt best leave ’ the moon , ’ buddy ’ s bagel alone mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt pedestrian summoned after being hit by car mon oct 7 , 2013 05 : 19 am edt portsmouth man attacked by fox mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt guided walks offered at nh audubon society mon oct 7 , 2013 01 : 19 am edt furloughs end at portsmouth naval shipyard today mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt clough aims to be a voice for the people of portsmouth mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt around the city of portsmouth mon oct 7 , 2013 03 : 19 am edt this has not been the case over the past few years , and statistics indicate an alarming number of bankruptcies filed by smes – around 100,000 smes have been wound up in romania in the past few years .
improving the law on insolvency and the restructuring / winding up procedures , together with the justice ministry and the ministry for public finances , so as to build a more dynamic business environment ; drawing up and implementing the “ sme test ” – the impact on smes .
« previoususl va lansa un program de microindustrializare interviu cu domnul deputat constantin niţă , vicepreşedinte psd şi preşedintele psd judeţul braşov next „ venitul unui medic ar trebui să fie de trei ori mai mare decât venitul mediu pe economie “ interviu cu prof. univ. dr mircea cinteză more tatar-bashkir newslatest from azatliq.org нобель атнасы башланды хәтер көнен ирек мәйданында уздыруга рөхсәт бирмәгәннәр украинадан 160 мөселман хаҗга китте политковская үлеменә җиде ел төмәннең матмас авылына игътибар бирелә башлады radio azatliq ( in tatar and bashkir ) features & commentary unemployment set to get worse in usa and as the fed keeps on prionting money to save institutions the banks keep on doing the same thing .
gm has announced it will get rid of 2 ( out of 7 jets ) of its corporate jets after arriving in washington to ask for bail out monies yet have no concern to trim costs nor had a plan of how they will trim costs .
gm pays more money in corporate sponsorship than ford or chysler who also asked for a handout but they too had no game plan to trim costs as well as execs salaries ..
[ usa states budget deficit 2010 & 2011 ] [ unemployment usa & thailand 2009 ] [ crises blame -guess who ? ]
[ trump casinos in chap 11 bankrupcy ] [ read george soros crises report ] [ madoff ponzi fraud crises ] [ thailand in crises ] [ us economy worsens ] [ asia crises better than us ] [ depression safeguards ] [ thailand finance news ] [ amex bailout wrong ] [ banks bailout : blame who ] [ blame cr act or who ? ]
[ aig abuse bailout funds ] [ gm & bankruptcy better ] [ usa bailout will not work ] [ pension funds ] [ hedge funds 2008 ] [ investing fund guidelines ] why you [ do not invest in finance companies ] [ buy gold not shares in finance companies ] [ thai property speculation & sub prime crises ] wear : old rail yard could be bonanza for cap metro mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt davis doesnt mention abortion in announcing her run for governor thu oct 3 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt davis announces bid for governor thu oct 3 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt for wendy davis , todays the day thu oct 3 , 2013 10 : 27 am edt georgetown to consider citywide spraying for mosquitos tue sep 25 , 2012 4 : 27 pm edt premier : u.s. may not act sat sep 15 , 2012 12 : 27 am edt new brushy creek pedestrian bridge now open mon sep 10 , 2012 6 : 27 pm edt an inside look at the king of austin ’ s office space sun oct 6 , 2013 08 : 27 am edt silvercar plans next landing at la airport sat oct 5 , 2013 08 : 27 am edt wcc raising money to buy cap city comedy ’ s home fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt abc ’ s shark tank to feature freeloader of austin fri oct 4 , 2013 12 : 27 pm edt austin ’ s no. 1 - but perhaps tourists are not amused fri oct 4 , 2013 12 : 27 pm edt the good , bad and ugly : dell ’ s new laptops , tablets reviewed by techies fri oct 4 , 2013 10 : 27 am edt whooping cough vaccinations concern parents sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt fbi searches houston home and detonates substance sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt marathon kids kicks off at ut sat oct 5 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt acl weekend 1 comes to a close mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt pet of the week : grace sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt suspicious death in nw austin sun oct 6 , 2013 08 : 27 am edt dripping residents help wounded vet sat oct 5 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt depuis le deuxième assassinat politique en moins de 6 mois , les laïcs manifestent contre ennahda et demande la dissolution de l 'assemblée constituante .
un islamiste présumé a été tué , cinq autres arrêtées au cours d 'une opération de police dimanche matin dans une maison dans la banlieue de tunis .
les opérations de démantèlement de groupes terroristes se multiplient depuis le second assassinat politique dans le pays et la mort de soldats à la frontière les habitants de ouardia , banlieue au sud de la capitale ont été réveillés par des tirs à 5h30 par une opération commando visant une maison qui abritait cinq suspects ont été arrêtés , un homme a été tué et un autre blessé au cours moins d 'une semaine après une ambuscade au mont chaambi où 8 soldats tunisiens ont été retrouvés fusillés et égorgés , les autorités tunisiennes ont depuis promis une plus grande fermeté dans la lutte anti-terroriste .
a chaambi , frontière tuniso-algérienne , l 'armée a eu recours à des dix jihadistes auraient été tués , chiffres non encore confirmés par le on a appris dans la soirée dimanche qu 'un soldat tunisien a été tué , sept autres blessés par l 'explosion d 'une mine près de la frontière algérienne , où ces derniers jours , le pays a été secoué par plusieurs alertes terroristes : - un colis suspect et une menace de mort ont été retrouvés devant la maison samedi à l 'appel d 'ennahda , majoritaire au sein de la coaltion gouvernementa le , plusieurs dizaines de milliers de personnes ont manifesté à tunis . - un homme a tiré sur une patrouille de police dans l 'est du pays .
dans les centres commerciaux , lieux publics et ambassades , la vigilance est accrue et l 'insécurité dans le pays ne cesse d 'accroitre les passions chez les si l 'identité des hommes tués au mont chaambi n 'a pas encore été révélée , le premier ministre , ali laarayedh a révélé placer la lutte anti-terroriste au-dessus " rendez les armes , rendez vous à la police et la société et la justice le prendra en considération " , a déclaré le premier ministre ali larayedh , cité par ce crime attribué à la mouvance jihadiste , et dont l 'exécutant et le commanditaire n 'ont pas été arrêtés , avait entraîné la chute du premier depuis l 'assassinat de l 'opposant politique mohamed brahmi le 25 juillet dernier , la tunisie est de nouveau ébranlée sur le plan sécuritaire , politique cela fait maintenant 10 jours que des manifestations géantes se tiennent quotidiennement devant le parlement pour demander la dissolution du gouvernement .
dimanche soir une manifestation de femmes étaient prévues à tunis .
elles devaient s 'habiller en blanc et rouge en signe de condamnation du can you tell us a few things about the history of the romanians who live in timoc valley ?
what was the soviet influence on this part of the balkans , and how did it affect the romanians in timoc ?
was there any collaboration between yugoslavia ’ s and romania ’ s secret services ?
« previousvalea timocului este o zonă în care românii au continuitate încă de la ocupaţia romană interviu cu domnul tiberius puiu next un adevărat român & # 8211 ; interviu cu asr prinţul paul al româniei © 2012 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress local - fox16.com little rock , ar tva breaks hydropower record fri oct 4 , 2013 1 : 26 pm edt twitter files to raise up to $ 1b in ipo fri oct 4 , 2013 1 : 26 pm edt tourism pros say natchez pilgrimage going well mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 17 am edt trial scheduled monday in jackson co slaying sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 17 pm edt bp trial to focus on scientists ’ spill estimates sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 17 pm edt tenn. mayor asks to reopen smoky mountains sat oct 5 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt problems continue for obamacare enrollment fri oct 4 , 2013 9 : 26 pm edt memphis man convicted of raping woman in wheelchair fri oct 4 , 2013 7 : 26 pm edt haslam pledges to increase tenn .
teacher salaries thu oct 3 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt mom charged with theft in connection to fundraiser wed oct 2 , 2013 3 : 26 pm edt tigers lose late to ucf sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt late fumble costly in vols ot loss to georgia sun oct 6 , 2013 01 : 26 am edt продинфо - новости : закупочные цены на молоко в беларуси повышаются на 10 % - продовольственный рынок беларуси главная » новости беларуси » закупочные цены на молоко в беларуси ...
закупочные цены на молоко в беларуси повышаются на 10 % 11 августа 2010закупочные цены на молоко в республике беларусь повысятся в среднем на 10 % .
такое решение содержится в постановлении совета министров республики беларусь от 9 августа 2010 г . № 1177 .
на основании документа внесены соответствующие изменения в постановление совета министров республики беларусь от 5 июня 2008 г . № 812 " о закупочных ценах на продукцию животноводства , реализуемую для республиканских государственных нужд " , сообщает pravo.by со ссылкой на белта .
закупочная цена на молоко сорта " экстра " возрастет c br1000 до br1100 за 1 кг , молоко высшего сорта - с br865 до br950 , на молоко первого сорта - с br795 до br875 .
как сообщили в министерстве сельского хозяйства и продовольствия республики беларусь , принятие постановления позволит повысить рентабельность производства молока до 15 % , получить сельскохозяйственным организациям в августе-декабре 2010 года около br200 млрд. дополнительной выручки и направить ее на закупку минеральных удобрений , горючесмазочных материалов , а также повышение заработной осуществляться поэтапным повышением отпускных цен в рамках прогнозных параметров инфляции , что наряду с экспортной выручкой обеспечит прибыльную работу молочной отрасли на уровне 2-3 % " , - подчеркнули в в июне нынешнего года оставались стабильными , а с середины июля стали расти цены на молочную продукцию , поставляемую на экспорт .
только за последнюю неделю июля экспортные цены на основные позиции молочной продукции увеличились в среднем на $ 200 за тонну .
в результате цены внешнего рынка , несмотря на повышение закупочных цен на молоко в марте и июне 2010 года по 10 % , позволяют перерабатывающим организациям по ряду позиций получать значительную прибыль .
так , рентабельность сыров и сухого цельного молока превысила 20 % , казеина - 35 % , сухого обезжиренного молока составляет около 70 % .
отпускные цены на социально значимую цельномолочную продукцию , реализуемую в республике , с повышением их в апреле и мае 2010 года по 2 % и в июле - на 3 % , вместе с тем с повышением цен на материальные ресурсы , используемые для производства по оперативным данным , за январь-июнь 2010 года молокоперерабатывающей отраслью получено br383,8 млрд. прибыли от реализации и br246 млрд. чистой прибыли .
уровень рентабельности реализованной молочной отсутствие сезонного снижения цен внешнего рынка на молочную продукцию и был внесен на утверждение проект постановления совета министров республики беларусь об увеличении закупочных цен на молоко на 10 % " , - al qaeda leader al libi caught in libya sun oct 6 , 2013 09 : 20 am edt " turns out that was a different jim brady , " a blushing salvi was later < a href = " http : / / articles.chicagotribune.com / 1996-11-02 / news / 9611020079 _ 1 _ o-malley-event-gun-control-assault-weapons " target = " _ hplink " > forced to admit < / a > .
" i apologize . "
" this is not a man who sees america like you and i see america , " she said .
" we see america as a force of good in this world .
we see an america of exceptionalism . " < / blockquote > ' there is no god 'in 2008 , a floundering sen. elizabeth dole ( r-n.c. ) released an ad attempting to accuse her opponent , democrat kay hagan , of having mysterious ties to a group called godless americans .
the ad was criticized for its apparent interchangeable use of the words " terrorists " and " muslims , " as well as the fact that ellmers ' opponent , incumbent rep. bob etheridge ( d ) hadn 't even weighed in on the issue yet .
hillary has decided to play the game of politics in the crass age of money and must abide by the unpleasant consequences like everyone else .
sartor _ resartus : the cultural distorters and radical leftists who control most of but they haven 't now have they ?
or do you object to our calling them mindless broads ?
you of course are talking about potus and the us congress ( both parties ) .
really ? ! ? ! ?
can you cite an equivalent activity by the president or an official democratic function ?
they are scared of madam president hillary clinton .
it shows you how they treat women .
when you disrespect a woman whether a democrat or republican , you are classless and sick .
and yet most women are still influenced by this misogyny by becoming anorexic to keep our things thin and risk surgery for bigger breasts . the day we stop cow towing to these male rublicans , is the day we women will truly be their equals .
miss. executes former butcher who dismembered man thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt ap news alert thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt bond now $ 1m for female suspect in stripper case thu jun 21 , 2012 12 : 17 am edt make-a-wish grants wish for teen in gulfport mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 17 am edt usdaa dog competition wags on despite tropical disturbance sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 17 pm edt airport to show off new runway sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 17 am edt cleveland man indicted for abuse fri oct 4 , 2013 8 : 17 pm edt career , college fair a hit sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 17 am edt hollandales top cop is man of faith fri oct 4 , 2013 2 : 17 pm edt valley nominee : i ’ m a good fit sun oct 6 , 2013 04 : 17 am edt dancing their way to spain mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 17 am edt bp trial to focus on scientists ’ spill estimates mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 17 am edt pike gop fundraiser set for thursday wed aug 28 , 2013 4 : 17 pm edt officials mum on chief tue aug 27 , 2013 4 : 17 pm edt man fatally shot in hattiesburg mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 17 am edt port of pascagoula keeps a low profile mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 17 am edt man accused of stealing property in casino garages mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 17 am edt the dart : ’ retire is not in english professor ’ s vocabulary mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 17 am edt brewer to obama : reopening canyon has precedent sat oct 5 , 2013 12 : 07 am edt fhs swimmers take second , third fri oct 4 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt phoenix homeowner finds , shoots burglar sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 07 pm edt tucson bicyclist dead after riding in front of suv sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 07 pm edt id made on 4 killed in az plane crash sat oct 5 , 2013 10 : 07 pm edt murder suspect : ’ god told me to do it ’ sat oct 5 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt bearizona hosts howly growly owly sat oct 5 , 2013 2 : 07 pm edt human remains id ’ d as golden valley man fri oct 4 , 2013 10 : 07 pm edt trampoline injuries up since get air park ’ s opening mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 07 am edt steller : raytheon tax dispute no cause for alarm mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 07 am edt pcsd deems south side death a homicide sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt sun tran says sungo cards now providing smooth rides sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 07 pm edt another fall cool down on the way sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 07 pm edt zumba fundraiser for breast cancer sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 07 pm edt church van crashes on nogales hwy . sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 07 pm edt yuma county ’ s most wanted for 10-7-13 mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt crane district to eye reclassification study mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 07 am edt 5 / .
giving money to beggers you may regret it if you open your wallet and they see whats inside .
again a king thai lady made this listake on the rangit overhead walkway one day and she lost her life .
11 / .
even good talking foreigners can scam .
watch the backpacker sometimes on the overbridge to panthip plaza whose down and out and lost his passport wanting money or just got ripped off by the girlfriend and wants to borrow some baht off you ? 14 / .
if you find your ccs are used do not use again but report stolen ? you may get a bill but if you haven 't used it then the company may waiver it .
15 / .
never buy property unless you see it eg. condos finished ? ? some foreigners ply on unsuspecting foreigners .
as at 2012 the touts are not around the doors anymore at the airport and its a lot harder to be approached by touts but all the same watch ones who loiter around escalators or the main doors offering you cheap taxi rides etc .
always use the meter taxi outside the bottom ground floor with a chit or bell bus service to pattaya or the train to bangkok . ]
[ airport scams & thefts ] [ suvarnabumi airport ] yet there is a different dimension to the problem , and that is the use of minerals for much needed government revenue , and to an extent , some auxiliary industries one of which , to start with , should not be the generation of nuclear power .
if you find our content useful you can help us out by recommending the site to your friends and / or by liking our page on facebook .
how tennessee can become an auto-production mecca fri oct 4 , 2013 09 : 26 am edt clarksville police probe emails in school lockdown sat oct 5 , 2013 05 : 26 am edt grant to boost vol state it program sat oct 5 , 2013 03 : 26 am edt police investigating emails that prompted lockdown at clarksville schools fri oct 4 , 2013 1 : 26 pm edt park rangers find vandalism , trespassing in smokies sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt gulf coast eases storm prep as karen is downgraded sun oct 6 , 2013 11 : 26 pm edt candlelight vigil for unsolved murders sun oct 6 , 2013 7 : 27 pm edt welcome !
welcome to the web site for the diocese of duluth .
we hope you will visit often to stay abreast of the news and information for the catholic church in northeastern minnesota .
october fundraiser is first step in bay theatre revival fri oct 4 , 2013 8 : 15 pm edt business district in catonsville community welcomes revitalization mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt pikesville grad primed for u.s. amateur golf championship mon aug 12 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt hampstead woman charged in death of her 4-year-old daughter fri sep 6 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt harford hazmat responds to ’ acidic material ’ strewn through churchville home fri oct 4 , 2013 6 : 15 pm edt ’ rocky horror picture show ’ on stage in havre de grace for its 40th anniversary thu oct 3 , 2013 10 : 15 am edt ’ fight club ’ author chuck palahniuk returns with ’ doomed ’ sat oct 5 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt batts ’ method questioned in personal ’ investigative stop ’ sat oct 5 , 2013 2 : 15 pm edt fannie lou hamer awards honor seven arundel women sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 15 pm edt charge rivals to use their network was " too steep " and could les forces de sécurité ont tué par balles au moins 70 partisans du président déchu mohamed morsi , tôt samedi , affirme la confrérie des frères musulmans .
son porte-parole , gehad el-haddad , a déclaré que la police avait ouvert le feu peu avant la prière matinale , non loin de la mosquée de rabba al-adawiya , où les partisans de mohamed morsi organisaient un sit-in permanent depuis la reprise en main du pays par l 'armée il y a plus de trois semaine .
" ils ne tirent pas pour blesser mais pour tuer " , soutient-il .
la télévision qatarie , al-jazeera , donne un bilan de 120 morts et d 'environ 4 les partisans et opposants de morsi , incarcéré depuis le coup d 'etat , avaient le chef d 'état-major , le général abdel fattah al-sisi , qui a joué un rôle déterminant dans le coup qui a chassé du pouvoir mohamed morsi , devenu très impopulaire , avait lancé un appel aux egyptiens à descendre dans la rue afin de lui donner un mandat " pour lutter contre les violences et le terrorisme . "
le ministre de la défense et vice-premier ministre dans le nouveau gouvernement a été entendu puisque plusieurs centaines de milliers d 'egyptiens vendredi le ministre de l 'intérieur , mohamed ibrahim , avait déclaré qu 'il serait bientôt mis fin légalement au sit-in des pro-morsi autour de la mosquée les occidentaux sont de plus en plus inquiets par la tournure des événements jeudi il a été annoncé que morsi devra répondre de charges de complot avec un groupe étranger , en l 'occurence le hamas , qui aurait participé à l 'attaque d 'une prison où il était incarcéré au début du soulèvement populaire contre le plusieurs détenus et gardiens avaient été tués et des soldats enlevés .
copyright © 2004-2013 caribbean news now .
all rights reservedtehnologie | cadran politic agenția pentru cercetare avansată în domeniul apărării ( darpa ) a încheiat recent un acord cu departamentul apărării din australia în privinţa instalării pe teritoriul australian a unui telescop radar destinat supravegherii spaţiale , se precizează într-un comunicat al agenţiei americane .
space surveillance telescope ( sst ) va fi dotat cu un sistem de trei lentile mersenne-schmidt ( care ...
google , apple şi microsoft se luptă pentru supremaţie .
în vreme ce android a cucerit o puternică bază mobilă , microsoft şi apple , sisteme „ închise ” , mizează pe universul produselor conexe şi a variantelor desktop .
luna martie a fost foarte încărcată în lumea internetului aducându-ne lansările celor mai performante browsere oferite de giganţii din industrie : microsoft , google şi mozilla .
microsoft a cheltuit milioane de dolari sprijinind diverși politicieni in anii precedenți și se pare că intenționeză să recupereze măcar o parte din acești bani înapoi prin vânzarea unui nou pachet de servicii si unelte software destinate campaniilor politice și grupurilor de activiști .
această nouă ofertă poartă denumirea ” campaingready ” si are la bază o platformă interactivă ...
wolfram alpha ( www.wolframalpha.com ) este un nou tip de motor de căutare , cu care stephen wolfram , un fizician britanic , îşi propune să dea răspunsuri exacte , la obiect , asemenea celor date de un om şi speră să atragă atenţia gigantului google .
microsoft lansează noul său motor de căutare bing.com , ce va fi disponibil tuturor începând cu 3 iunie .
şi în românia , mediapro testează ...
protestele de la chişinău au făcut înconjurul lumii .
cnn a prezentat pe pagina electronică un sumar al evenimentelor de marţi , 7 aprilie 2009 , din republica moldova .
jurnaliştii cnn au remarcat importanţa pe care internetul şi reţelele de socializare au avut-o în organizarea protestelor .
evenimentele din chişinău au fost puse la cale pe twitter sau facebook , lucru observat şi de „ new ...
lansarea windows 7 beta , anunţată cu surle şi trâmbiţe la târgul ces din las vegas , a fost amânată cu 24 de ore , din cauză că serverele au cedat , iar compania a încercat să le suplimenteze cât de repede a putut . compania a fost aspru criticată chiar şi pe blogul oficial al windows de utilizatorii dezamăgiţi că nu au putut testa noul sistem la termenul anunţat .
abilitatea microsoft de a combate pirateria online i-a înfuriat pe utilizatorii de internet chinezi .
noua versiune a programului anti-piratare windows genuine advantage face ca background-ul de pe monitor să se înnegrească la fiecare oră dacă software-ul instalat nu trece un test de validare .
utilizatorii chinezi de internet susţin că microsoft ar trebui să îi urmărească pe producătorii ...
idc : serviciile locale it au crescut cu 48,7 % în 2007 piaţa românească a serviciilor it a avut în 2007 o valoare de 363,14 milioane de dolari , în creştere cu 48,7 % faţă de anul anterior , potrivit unui studiu al companiei de analiză idc , citat în raportul lunar asupra pieţei tehnologiei informaţiei publicat de newsin .
“ piaţa românească a serviciilor it a crescut în 2007 cu 48,7 % , calculată în dolari americani , până la aproape 363,14 ... iphone 3g a fost lansat şi în românia pe 22 august şi au fost înregistrate 6000 de precomenzi , iar 100 de telefoane au fost cumpărate la momentul lansării în bucureşti , potrivit informaţiilor oferite de reprezentanţii orange românia .
în aceeaşi zi , vodafone romania punea la dispoziţia clienţilor săi o ofertă unică ce include noul model htc touch diamond la preţuri speciale şi ... © 2013 cadran politic · rss · designed by theme junkie · powered by wordpress this is kent | profile for sevenoaks chronicle | sevenoaks chronicle chronicle go to columnist page » blog : the conscience of a liberal the main answer , which only the most pathologically “ balanced ” reporting can deny , is the radicalization of the republican party .
as thomas mann and norman ornstein put it last year in their book , “ it ’ s even worse than it looks , ” the g.o.p. has become “ an insurgent outlier — ideologically extreme ; contemptuous of the inherited social and economic policy regime ; scornful of compromise ; unpersuaded by conventional understanding of facts , evidence and science ; and dismissive of the legitimacy of its political opposition . ”
unfortunately for all of us , even the shock of electoral defeat wasn ’ t enough to burst the g.o.p. bubble ; it ’ s still a party dominated by wishful thinking , and all but impervious to inconvenient facts .
and now that party ’ s leaders have bungled themselves into a corner .
everybody not inside the bubble realizes that mr. obama can ’ t and won ’ t negotiate under the threat that the house will blow up the economy if he doesn ’ t — any concession at all would legitimize extortion as a routine part of politics .
yet republican leaders are just beginning to get a clue , and so far clearly have no idea how to back down .
meanwhile , the government is shut , and a debt crisis looms .
incompetence can be a terrible thing .
mbunge wa dodoma mjini , david malolle ( ccm ) , ametangaza rasmi kujitoa kwenye ujumbe wa bodi ya mamlaka ya ustawishaji makao makuu ( cda ) na kuwataka wananchi kuandamana ili mamlaka hiyo ifutwe kwani imekuwa ikibomoa mji na si kuuboresha .
mbunge huyo alitoa kauli hiyo juzi alipokuwa akizungumza na wananchi wa kata ya chang ’ ombe magharibi mara baada ya uzinduzi wa ofisi ya tawi la kata hiyo .
habari kamili uhuru wa vyombo vya habari umezidi kutiwa kitanzini kufuatia serikali kupanga kuwasilisha katika bunge mwezi huu , muswada wa marekebisho ya sheria ya mbalimbali ya mwaka 2013 ikiwamo sheria ya magazeti ya mwaka 1976 ambayo sasa faini itaongezwa kwa chombo cha habari kinachofanya kosa kwa kiwango cha asilimia 3,233 .
bunge limesema limepokea taarifa rasmi iliyowasilishwa na mbunge wa kigoma kaskazini ( chadema ) , zitto kabwe , ya kukusudia kuwasilisha bungeni muswada binafsi wa marekebisho ya sheria ya magazeti ya mwaka 1976 , kwa lengo la kuifuta kabisa sheria hiyo .
licha ya jeshi la polisi kutumia nguvu kubwa ya kumsaka mbunge wa arusha mjini , godbless lema ( chadema ) kwa kumvamia nyumbani kwake usiku , kuizingira wakiwa wamejihami kwa silaha nzito na mabomu ya machozi kisha kumkamata na kumfunga pingu , baadaye kumfungulia mashitaka ya uchochezi , serikali imeamua kufuta mashitaka hayo .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi wa sokoine drive , jijini dar es salaam , jana ilishindwa kutoa uamuzi dhidi ya kesi ya kuuza sukari iliyo haribika inayoikabili kampuni ya tanzania pharmaceutical industries limited ( tpi ) baada ya wakili wa utetezi , dennis msafiri , kushindwa kufika mahamani hapo kwa madai ya kuumwa .
mahakama kuu tanzania , kanda ya dar es salaam , imesema itatoa uamuzi desemba 12 , mwaka huu dhidi pingamizi zitakazowasilishwa na upande wa mlalamikiwa kwa njia ya maandishi dhidi ya katibu mkuu wa ccm , abdulrahman kinana .
tume ya mabadiliko ya katiba imelishangaa bunge kwa ’ undumila kuwili ’ wake wa kupitisha sheria mbili zinazokinzana kuhusiana na mchakato unaosimamiwa na tume hiyo .
mwenyekiti wake , jaji joseph warioba alitoa kauli hiyo jana jijini dar es salaam wakati akizungumza na waandishi wa habari , kwa lengo la kuwapa taarifa ya uendeshaji wa mabaraza ya katiba , ngazi ya serikali za mitaa ulivyofanyika .
wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi imesema kwa sasa haina fedha za kutekeleza agizo la kamati ya hesaba za serikali ( pac ) la kurudia upya zoezi la utoaji wa hati za ardhi , pamoja na kuziweka katika mfumo wa kielektroniki badala ya mfumo wa karatasi ( analojia ) .
waziri wa nchi ofisi ya rais ( mahusiano na uratibu ) , stephen wassira , amekoleza mjadala wa mchakato wa katiba mpya baada ya kuyataka makundi vikiwamo vyama vya upinzani kama vina hoja za msingi zitakazofanya usisainiwe muswada wa marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba wampelekee rais .
tunaondoa wahamiaji haramu , siyo wakimbizi , kikwete aliambia bunge la marekani rais jakaya kikwete ameiambia kamati ya bunge la marekani kuwa tanzania haijafukuza mkimbizi hata mmoja kutoka nchini na wanaoondolewa ni wahamiaji haramu walioingia na kuishi nchini bila kufuata taratibu na sheria za uhamiaji .
mchakato wa kupata katiba mpya umeendelea kupingwa , baada ya wanaharakati kuungana na kutoa tamko la kutaka usiharakishwe huku na rais jakaya kikwete , kutousaini muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba kutokana na kutokuwapo kwa uelewa mpana hususani maeneo ya ukinzani likiwamo suala la muungano .
vyama vya nccr-mageuzi , cuf na chadema , vimeungana kupinga mchakato wa katiba mpya kwa madai kuwa umehodhiwa na chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) na kutawaliwa na ubabe wa kanuni na sheria za bunge kwa kuunyima upande wa zanzibar haki ya kushiriki .
serikali imesema miongoni mwa wanaokwamisha vita dhidi ya ujangili ni wabunge kutokana na baadhi yao kujihusisha na biashara ya pembe za ndovu .
pamoja na kuwataja wabunge ambao ndiyo watunga sheria nchini , serikali imesema pia vita hiyo inashindwa kupata mafanikio kutokana na kuwa na mtandao mkubwa wa wafanyabiashara wakubwa na maofisa wa serikali kujihusisha na biashara hiyo .
mahakama ya rufani tanzania imeombwa kutupa rufaa ya kupinga hukumu ya mahakama kuu iliyothibitisha mbunge wa singida mashariki kupitia chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , tundu lissu , kuwa alishinda kihalali katika uchaguzi mkuu wa mwaka 2010 kwa madai kuwa mlalamikaji wa kwanza katika kesi hiyo , shaaban selema amehamia chama hicho .
upelelezi wa tuhuma zinazomkabili mbunge wa mbeya mjini , joseph mbilinyi maarufu kama sugu ( chadema ) , bado unaendelea .
sugu aliripoti kituo cha polisi mjini hapa majira ya asubuhi akiwa ameongozana na wakili wake , mbunge wa singida mashariki ( chadema ) , tundu lissu .
mhadhiri wa chuo kikukuu cha dar es salaam , profesa chris maina , amesema kuna hofu ya kuwa na katiba yenye mtazamo wa chama kimoja cha siasa kutokana na utaratibu uliowekwa wa wajumbe wanaotakiwa kushiriki kwenye bunge la maalumu la katiba .
mbunge wa arusha mjini , godbless lema ( chadema ) , amewataka waumini wa dini kujifunza wajibu wao wa kutoa sadaka nzuri na kuacha kupokea fedha chafu .
alisema hayo mwishoni mwa wiki akiwa mgeni rasmi wakati wa harambee ya kuchangia mfuko wa maendeleo wa parokia ya mtakatifu francis xaver , iliyopo olosipa eneo la sakina kwa iddi .
muswada wa marekebisho ya sheria ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 umezidi kuibua mapya , baada ya chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) kudai kwamba , kikao cha bunge kilichofanya maamuzi ya kuupitisha hakikuwa halali .
wakati mbunge wa mbeya mjini ( chadema ) , joseph mbilinyi , maarufu kwa jina la sugu , akielezewa kujisalimisha polisi , huenda akakabiliwa na hatari ya kufikishwa mahakamani kwa makosa ya jinai .
muswada wa sheria wa mabadiliko ya sheria ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 , umepitishwa ' kiulani ’ na wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) huku wenzao wa upinzani wakisusia .
tofauti na ilivyotarajiwa na wengi kwamba muswada huo ungekwamishwa ama kupita kwa mbinde , lakini ulipitishwa jana kwa kufanyiwa mabadiliko madogo na wabunge wa ccm walioshiriki kikamilifu kuujadili kwa kuzungumza na wengine kwa maandishi .
muswada wa sheria ya marekebisho ya mabadiliko ya katiba wa mwaka 2013 umeligawa bunge , baada ya wabunge kutoka vyama vya chadema , nccr-mageuzi na cuf kususia mjadala wa muswada huo na kutoka nje ya ukumbi wa bunge na kuwaacha wabunge wa ccm na augustine mrema wa tlp .
baadhi ya washiriki wa mkutano wa 10 wa umoja wa kamati za bunge za hesabu za serikali kwa nchi za jumuiya ya maendeleo ya kusini mwa afrika ( sadcopac ) , wamevitaka vyama vilivyounda serikali zilizopo madarakani kuwapa uhuru wa majadiliano na usimamiaji wa hoja zenye maslahi ya umma ndani ya vikao vya bunge .
tanzania kwa mara ya kwanza katika historia ya bunge la afrika mashariki imefanikiwa kupata kikao rasmi katika ratiba ya vikao vya bunge hilo .
mwenyekiti wa wabunge watanzania katika bunge la afrika mashariki , adam kimbisa , alisema tanzania kama nchi pia imefanikiwa kupata kikao chake .
daftarila kudumu la wapigakura linapaswa kufanyiwa maboresho kila wakati ili kuwawezesha watanzania wanaofikisha umri wa miaka 18 waandikishwe , mmoja wa wajumbe wa mabaraza ya katiba amependekeza .
wabunge wamekishambulia vikali chama kilele ( apex ) , cha kusambaza pembejeo kwa wakulima nchini na kuitaka serikali kukifutilia mbali kutokana na sababu kadhaa ikiwamo ya kuwanyonya wakulima .
bunge limeishauri serikali kuweka utaratibu wa kuwabana wabadhirifu wa fedha za vyama vya ushirika na kama watathibitika kuhusika na kosa hilo , wafilisiwe mali zao zote pamoja na kufidia hasara iliyopatikana .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni imemshushia tuhuma nzito waziri wa maliasili na utalii , balozi khamis kagasheki ( pichani ) , ikiwamo ya kushinikiza mradi upewe msaada wa sh. milioni 10 kutoka mamlaka ya hifadhi ya ngorongoro ( ncaa ) kinyume cha taratibu .
kikao cha bunge kinatarajia kuendelea leo mjini hapa baada ya mapumziko ya mwishoni mwa wiki huku miswada miwili ya sheria kati ya sita iliyopangwa kuwasilishwa katika mkutano wa bunge wa 12 , kujadiliwa ikiondolewa .
baraza la kitaasisi la wanawake wanahabari , limesema katiba mpya iainishe suala la usawa katika nyanja zote za uongozi ikiwa ni pamoja na uongozi wa mihimili mikuu mitatu ya utawala yaani serikali , bunge na mahakama .
mvutano uliokuwapo kati ya wabunge wa rwanda , uganda na kenya kutaka vikao vya bunge la afrika ya mashariki ( eala ) vifanyike kwa mzunguko kwa nchi wanachama , huku tanzania wakipinga umemalizika kwa makubaliano kila nchi kifanyike kikao kimoja katika kalenda ya mwaka .
mbio za kugombea urais katika uchaguzi mkuu wa mwaka 2015 kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) zimeanza kuchukua sura mpya , baada ya baadhi ya vigogo kujitokeza hadharani kumpigia debe spika wa bunge , anne makinda .
kauli iliyotolewa juzi bungeni na waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kuwa wabunge wengi ni miongoni mwa orodha ya majina ya wanaojihusisha na biashara ya dawa za kulevya , imeoonekana kuwachefua wabunge .
sakata la biashara ya dawa za kulevya sasa limechukua sura mpya baada ya jana waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kulieleza bunge kuwa iwapo serikali itaamua kuwataja vigogo wa biashara hiyo nchini kama inavyopewa taarifa kutoka vyanzo mbalimbali , hakuna atakayepona kwani miongoni mwao wamo wabunge wengi .
wakati wananchi wakiwa hawajajua majaliwa yao juu maamuzi ya serikali kuhusu kilio chao dhidi ya kodi ya simu ya sh .
1,000 kwa mwezi iliyopitishwa na bunge la bajeti ya mwaka 2013 / 14 , kuna habari kwamba mzigo huo sasa unaweza kuhamishiwa kwenye ununuaji wa vocha .
mkutano wa 12 wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania unatarajiwa kuanza mjini hapa leo ambapo pamoja na mambo mengine , utajadili miswada sita .
kwa mujibu wa ratiba iliyotolewa na ofisi ya bunge hapa jana , kikao kitaanza saa 3 : 00 asubuhi kwa kipindi cha maswali na majibu na baadaye kufuatiwa na muswada wa sheria ya taifa ya umwagiliaji wa mwaka 2013 ambao utajadiliwa hadi kesho jumatano .
tegemeo la umma kwa serikali kuwasilisha bungeni muswada wa mabadiliko ya sheria iliyoanzisha tozo la shilingi 1,000 kwa mwezi kwa watumiaji wa simu za kiganjani , limetoweka .
hali hiyo inatokana na bunge kupanga ratiba ya shughuli zake kwa mkutano wa 12 unaoanza jumanne wiki ijayo mjini dodoma , pasipo kuwapo muswada wa mabadiliko ya sheria ya fedha inayoanzisha tozo za simu .
kamati ya kudumu ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imesema kuwa taarifa ya matumizi ya fedha katika wizara ya ujenzi , ina shaka kwani kuna fedha ambazo ziliombwa kwa ajili ya miradi ambayo haipo .
shirika la nyumba la taifa ( nhc ) , limesema baadhi ya wanasiasa walioko katika mamlaka za juu serikalini , watu maarufu pamoja na matajiri , wamekuwa wakiendesha vitendo vya hujuma za makusudi kwa nia mbaya ya kukwamisha kasi ya utendaji kazi mzuri wa shirika .
kamati ya hesabu za serikali ( pac ) , imeiagiza wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi kurudia upya zoezi la utoaji wa hati za ardhi zote , pamoja na kuziweka katika mfumo wa kielektroniki badala ya mfumo wa karatasi , yaani analojia .
kamati tatu za bunge zimelalamikia sheria ya maadili ya viongozi wa umma kwamba haiweki uwazi wa kutangaza umiliki wa mali za viongozi hivyo kusababisha viongozi kutoweka wazi mali wanazomiliki .
mbunge wa urambo mashariki ( ccm ) , samuel sitta , amesema mahasimu wake kisiasa , wameimarisha mkakati wa kumchonganisha na wabunge , ili kufifisha jitihada zake za kupambana na ufisadi .
kamati ya bunge ya ardhi , maliasili na mazingira imesema vigogo wakubwa wa serikali wanaongoza kwa kujihusisha na biashara ya pembe za ndovu ndiyo maana zoezi la kuzuia majangili halifanikiwi kwa miaka mingi .
madudu zaidi yamebainika katika wizara ya elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi , baada ya kuwapanga baadhi ya wanafunzi wa kidato cha tano kwenye shule ambazo hazina masomo ya michepuo yao .
hii ni baada ya wanafunzi 1,189 waliochaguliwa kujiunga kidato cha tano katika shule mbalimbali nchini kubadilishwa na kupangiwa shule nyingine .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi mkoa wa mtwara imetupilia mbali mashtaka ya uchochezi yaliyokuwa yakimkabili mbunge wa mtwara mjini ( ccm ) , hasnain murji , hivyo ameachiwa huru .
murji alikuwa akikabiliwa na tuhuma za uchochezi wa vurugu za kupinga kujengwa bomba la kusafirisha gesi asilia kutoka mkoani mtwara hadi jijini dar es salaam , zilizosababisha vifo vya watu watatu na wengine kadhaa kujeruhiwa mei , mwaka huu .
mbunge wa masasi mjini , mariam kasembe ( ccm ) , amemwaga machozi mbele ya waziri wa maji , profesa jumanne maghembe , baada ya kutembele nyumba yake iliyoteketezwa kwa moto na wananchi katika vurugu zilizotokea machi , mwaka huu .
wajumbe wa kamati ya bunge ya hesabu za serikali za mitaa ( laac ) wamekuja juu kutokana na ujenzi wa soko la mwanjelwa la halmashauri ya jiji la mbeya kusuasua na kuiomba serikali kuingilia baada ya mkandarasi kudaiwa kuandika barua ya kuomba kusitisha mkataba .
wakati jeshi la polisi likitoa visingizio kwamba linashindwa kunasa watuhumiwa wanaosafirisha dawa za kulevya wanaopitia uwanja wa ndege wa kimataifa wa julius nyerere ( jnia ) , kutokana na kukosekana kwa vitendea kazi , mbunge wa kinondoni ( ccm ) , idd azzan , amesema yupo tayari kupigwa risasi au kunyongwa hadharani kama itathibitika anahusika na biashara hiyo .
serikali sasa imekubali kuwa kodi mpya ya laini ya simu ni mgogoro na inakusudia kurejesha muswada wa sheria ulioazisha kodi hiyo bungeni kwa mjadala zaidi .
waziri wa ushirikiano wa afrika mashariki , samuel sitta ( pichani ) , amesema litakuwa jambo la kuchekesha duniani iwapo nchi maskini kama tanzania itakuwa na marais watatu kama muundo wa serikali tatu uliopendekezwa kwenye rasimu ya katiba mpya utapitishwa .
waziri wa uchukuzi , dk .
harrison mwakyembe , ametoa misaada yenye thamani ya zaidi ya sh. milioni 40 jimboni mwake yakiwamo madawati 315 yatakayogawanywa kwa shule za msingi za jimbo la kyela mkoani mbeya .
hatimaye serikali imetoa tamko kuhusu kuwatoza watumiaji wa simu za mkononi kiasi cha sh.1000 kama kodi kila mwezi kwa madai ya kwamba kodi hiyo ilisharidhiwa na kupitishwa na wabunge wenyewe na kwamba inalenga kuboresha huduma mbalimbali za kijamii nchini .
naibu spika , job ndugai , amewataka wananchi kutoa taarifa katika ofisi ya bunge pale wanapobaini kuwapo kwa matumizi mabaya ya fedha za mfuko wa maendeleo ya jimbo ( cgf ) .
ndugai alisema zipo taratibu zinazotakiwa kufuatwa katika matumizi ya fedha hizo ambazo pamoja na kwamba mbunge ni mwenyekiti wa mfuko huo , lakini haruhusiwi kufanya manunuzi mwenyewe .
mahakama ya hakimu mkazi mkoa wa dodoma , imemfutia mashtaka na kumwachia huru , mbunge wa mbeya mjini , joseph mbilinyi , ( chadema ) , maarufu sugu baada ya kuthibitisha kuwa hati ya mashtaka ina mapungufu ya kisheria .
hofu ya kutopatikana tija kwa fedha nyingi zinazoidhinishwa katika bajeti kwa ajili ya miradi ya kupambana na ukimwi imesababisha makadirio ya matumizi ya ofisi ya makamu wa kwanza wa rais zanzibar maalim seif sharif hamad , kukwama kupitishwa .
mbunge wa iringa mjini ( chadema ) , mchungaji peter msigwa ameitaka serikali ieleze ni lini itawajengea askari nyumba bora ili waweze kuishi katika mazingira mazuri .
msigwa alitoa kauli hiyo jana bungeni alipokuwa akiuliza swali la nyongeza kwa kuitaka serikali ieleze ni lini itawaboreshea makazi askari wa jeshi la polisi hususani askari wa iringa mjini kutokana na kuishi katika nyumba alizosema hazina hadhi .
chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) kimetajwa kuwa kimeongoza kwa wabunge wake 48 kutoa michango 57 kwenye vikao mbalimbali vya bunge vinavyoendelea mjini dodoma .
tathmini hiyo ya miaka miwili ya bunge ilifanywa na shirika lisilo la kiserikali , twaweza kwa kushirikiana na kituo cha economic prosperity ( cep ) kwa kuzingatia ushiriki wa wabunge katika vikao kwa miaka miwili ya kipindi cha ubunge cha 2010 – 2015 .
jana bunge lilipitisha bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 huku ikiweka kiporo suala la kupunguza kodi ya mafuta ya petroli , dizeli na taa , kodi ya lipa kadiri unavyopata ( paye ) na bodaboda , badala yake kodi hizo zitatolewa ufafanuzi katika muswada wa fedha utakapowasilishwa bungeni kesho kutwa .
waziri wa fedha , dk .
william mgimwa , leo atakuwa kikaangoni atakapoanza kujibu hoja za wabunge hasa ongezeko la ushuru wa mafuta ya petroli ambalo limelalamikiwa na baadhi ya wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) kuwa ina mapungufu kadhaa .
mbunge wa nkasi kaskazini , ali keissy ( ccm ) , amewataka watanzania kuwa makini na sheria mpya ya ndoa inayotarajiwa kuletwa bungeni .
mbunge huyo amesema sheria hiyo mpya inaweza ikasababisha nchi kuongozwa na rais , wabunge na madiwani wanaojihusisha na vitendo vya mapenzi ya jinsia moja ( mashoga ) .
mbunge wa korogwe vijijini , stephen ngonyani maarufu profesa majimarefu ( ccm ) , ametahadharisha wanasiasa kuacha kupandikiza mbegu ya ukabila nchini kwa sababu hali hiyo inakwamisha jitihada za kuwaletea wananchi maendeleo .
mbunge wa kasulu mjini , moses machali ( nccr-mageuzi ) , amejeruhiwa baada ya kupigwa na watu wasiojulikana karibu na nyumbani kwake wakati akitokea kuhudhuria vikao vya bunge .
aidha , kijana mmoja aliyekuwa akimsaidia machali , alijeruhiwa kwa kung ’ atwa meno mgongoni .
mbunge wa viti maalum , clara mwatuka ( cuf ) , amelikana swali lake na kudai kuwa hakuwahi kuuliza swali linalohusu rada hata siku moja . & ldquo ; mheshimiwa spika & hellip ; tangu niingie bungeni hapa sijawahi kuuliza swali linalohusu masuala ya rada hata siku moja kwa hiyo hilo si swali langu , & rdquo ; alisema hata hivyo , spika wa bunge , anne makinda alipoona mbunge huyo amelikana swali hilo alisema : & ldquo ; waziri naomba basi hilo swali liwe langu .
mbunge wa bukene , seleman zedi ( ccm ) , ameitaka serikali kuliwezesha shirika la maendeleo ya petroli ( tpdc ) , ili lidhibiti na kusimamia kampuni zinazojishughulisha na utafiti wa mafuta na gesi nchi ipate faida .
kamati maalum ya kuchunguza mgogoro wa ujenzi wa bomba la gesi asilia kutoka mtwara kwenda dar es salaam , imesema imefikia katika hatua nzuri baada ya kuwasikiliza watu wengi wanaohusika na mgogoro huo .
wakati mbunge wa dole , sylivester mabumba ( ccm ) , akiomba serikali kuunda tume ya kuwachunguza maofisa wa mamlaka ya mapato tanzania ( tra ) wenye mali za kupindukia , mbunge wa manyoni magharibi , john lwenje ( ccm ) ameomba wafanyakazi wa wizara ya fedha waondolewe badala yake wakodiwe wataalam wazungu kufanya kazi hiyo .
serikali sasa isikilize hoja hizi za wabunge kuhusu bajeti ya 2013 / 14 jumatatu ijayo wabunge wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania watapitisha bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 iliyowasilishwa bungeni wiki iliyopita .
mbunge wa kawe , halima mdee , ameanza mazoezi makali kwa ajili ya kumkabili nyota wa filamu nchini , jacqueline wolper , katika moja ya mapambano ya ndondi za utangulizi yatakayofanyika kwenye tamasha la matumaini kwenye uwanja wa taifa jijini dar es salaam julai 7 .
mbunge wa sumbawanga mjini ( ccm ) , hillary aeshi , amemlipua mbunge wa zamani wa jimbo la kwela , chrisant mzindakaya , akidai amemilikishwa nyumba 15 za serikali peke yake wilayani sumbawanga .
taarifa ya serikali iliyosomwa bungeni jana na waziri wa nchi , ofisi ya waziri mkuu ( sera , uratibu na bunge ) , william lukuvi , kuhusiana na tukio la shambulizi la bomu jijini arusha jumamosi iliyopita , imemchafua mwenyekiti wa chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , freeman mbowe .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni jana ilishindwa kuwasilisha bajeti mbadala bungeni kwa mwaka wa fedha 2013 / 2014 baada ya wabunge wake kutohudhuria kikao hicho .
hata hivyo , kambi hiyo ilitoa hotuba yake kwa vyombo vya habari ikieleza kutumia sh .
mbunge wa mbozi mashariki , godfrey zambi ( ccm ) , ameitaka serikali kutoa tamko kuhusu kauli ya mkurugezi mkuu wa taasisi ya kuzuia na kupambana na rushwa ( takukuru ) , dk .
edward hosea , kuwa amefungwa mikono kuwashtaki vigogo wanaojihusisha na rushwa kubwa kubwa badala yake amepewa uwezo wa kushitaki makosa madogo madogo ongezeko la manunuzi na matumizi makubwa ya serikali , ambalo hayaendi sambamba na ongezeko la juhudi za ukusanyaji wa mapato , yataendelea kuwa mzigo mzito kwa taifa iwapo hatua hazitachukuliwa kurekebisha hali hiyo .
mbunge wa kisesa ( ccm ) , luhaga mpina , amesema hataiunga mkono bajeti ya serikali ya 2013 / 2014 kwa sababu haina jipya ikiwamo kukosekana kwa vyanzo vipya vya mapato na nidhamu katika upangaji wa matumizi .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , amewashukia wabunge akisema kwamba hawana mtandao wa pamoja katika kusimamia masuala yanayogusa maslahi ya nchi .
amesema wengi wao kila mmoja huwa anajibu hoja yake mwenyewe bila kuwashirikisha wenzake ili aonekane ndiye mwanzilishi .
serikali imetangaza bajeti yake ya mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 ambayo imepandisha kodi za & hellip ; & hellip ; ili kufanikisha lengo la kukusanya jumla ya sh. trilioni 18.249 kutoka kwenye vyanzo vya ndani na nje .
wabunge wamelalamikia ongezeko la kodi katika mafuta ya petroli wakisema litachangia kupandisha zaidi gharama za maisha kwa wananchi .
lawama hizo walizitoa jana wakati wakitoa maoni yao kuhusu bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 iliyosomwa na waziri wa fedha , dk .
serikali imebuni mfumo mpya wa usambazaji wa pembejeo utakaotumika katika msimu wa kilimo wa 2013 / 14 .
naibu waziri wa kilimo , chakula na ushirika , adam malima aliliambia bunge mjini hapa jana kuwa , mfumo huo umejadiliwa katika semina ya usambazaji wa pembejeo iliyofanyika mei mwaka huu .
zao la mwani limeanza kukosa soko visiwani hapa na kutokana na mahitaji yake kuwa madogo katika soko la dunia ikilinganishwa na kiwango kikubwa kinachozalishwa na wakulima wa unguja na pemba .
katibu wa mbunge wa mtwara mjini , hasnain murji , meckland millanzi , ameiomba mahakama ya wilaya ya mtwara kutenda haki , bila kushinikizwa na upande wowote ili haki itendeke dhidi ya mbunge huyo , ambaye yuko rumande kwa kushindwa kutimiza masharti ya dhamana .
macho na masikio ya wananchi kesho yanaelekezwa dodoma kusikiliza bajeti ya serikali kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 itakayowasilishwa majira ya saa 10 jioni .
hii ni bajeti muhimu sana kwa wananchi kwa sababu ndiyo itakayofafanua mipango ya maendeleo ya serikali kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 .
mbunge wa mkinga , dastan kitandula , amesema serikali inapoteza sh. bilioni 26 kwa mwaka kutokana na makampuni matano ya uchimbaji wa madini ambayo yamegoma kulipa kodi .
kutokana na hali hiyo , mbunge huyo ametaka kujua hatua za haraka zinazochukuliwa na serikali kuhakikisha kampuni hizo zinalipa kodi hizo .
mbunge wa jimbo la kilwa kusini , selemani bungara , amewataka wachezaji wa soka kujituma zaidi wawapo mashindanoni kutokana na mchezo huo sasa kugeuka ajira inayolipa .
hayo yalisemwa na diwani wa kata ya masoko , abdallah abbas kwa niaba ya mbunge huyo wakati wa ufunguzi wa mashindano ya kombe la bungara yanayoshirikisha kata mbili za kivinje na masoko zilizopo wilayani kilwa .
wabunge wamepinga marekebisho ya sheria ya uchaguzi wa mamlaka za serikali za mitaa yanayolenga kuongeza muda usiozidi miezi sita inapoonekana kwamba kesi za uchaguzi wa madiwani haziwezi kuhitimishwa ndani ya miezi 18 .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( chadema ) , susan lyimo amependekeza kuwa rais ambaye anamaliza muda wake wa utawala huku akiwa ameshindwa kutekeleza ahadi alizotoa kwenye kampeni za uchaguzi kupelekwa mahakamani .
waziri wa nchi katika ofisi ya waziri mkuu , tawala za mikoa na serikali za mitaa ( tamisemi ) , hawa ghasia , amesema wakaguzi wa ndani ambao watabainika kuwa ripoti zao hazina mapungufu ambayo yameainishwa na mkaguzi wa nje watachukuliwa hatua .
hatimaye hali ya amani katika eneo la kiwanda cha kusindika chai cha mponde imeanza kutengemaa baada ya kikundi cha ushirika wa chai cha kwaminyasa waliokuwa wamezingira kiwanda hicho kwa kuzuia kuendelea kwa shughuli za uendeshaji kuamriwa kuondoka mara moja na serikali ya mkoa wa tanga .
tamashala matumaini ambalo mwaka jana lilifanyika kwenye uwanja wa taifa , dar es salaam , mwaka huu tena linarejea kwenye uwanja huo julai 7 ambapo kutakuwa na burudani na michezo mbalimbali .
mgawanyiko umeibuka miongoni mwa wabunge kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , ukihusishwa na masuala ya udini katika kupitisha bajeti za wizara zilizowasilishwa bungeni .
vyanzo vya habari kutoka ndani ya kamati ya wabunge hao , vimeeleza kuwa , licha ya chama hicho kuwa katika makundi yanayopingika kwa misimamo , wameibuka wabunge wanaotumia mianya ya kidini kupenyeza ajenda zao .
ile ’ nyundo ’ inayotumiwa kuwashughulikia wabunge wanaotokana na vyama vya siasa , inaelekea kuzikwa rasmi , baada ya rasimu ya katiba mpya ya mwaka 2013 , iliyozinduliwa jumatatu wiki hii , kupendekeza kwamba uamuzi wa vyama hivyo wa kuwafukuza au kuwavua uanachama , hautapoteza ubunge wao .
kambi ya upinzani imeibua sakata la ufisadi wa shilingi bilioni 133 kwenye akaunti ya madeni ya nje ( epa ) ikihoji mambo kadhaa ikiwamo kiasi cha fedha zilizorejeshwa hadi sasa .
mwenyekiti wa chama cha nccr-mageuzi , james mbatia , ameitaka serikali kusitisha usambazaji wa nakala za vitabu na mihutasari inayofikia milioni 18 , akiviita kuwa ni ’ sumu kwa kizazi cha tanzania ’ .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( chadema ) , suzan lyimo , ameibana serikali akiitaka ilielezea taifa kwanini mawaziri wametoa kauli mbili tofauti kuhusiana na upangaji wa matokeo ya kidato cha nne kwa kutumia mfumo mpya wa fixed grade ranges , ambao unaelezwa kusababisha wanafunzi wengi kufeli .
bunge juzi lilipitisha makadirio ya mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya elimu na mafunzo ya ufundi baada ya kuwako kwa mjadala mkali na wa kina juu ya utendaji wa wizara hii .
mambo mengi ya kimsingi yaliwekwa wazi hasa juu ya kuendelea kuporomoka kwa ubora wa elimu nchini .
waziri wa nchi ofisi ya rais ( mahusiano na uratibu ) , steven wassira na makamu mkuu wa chuo kikuu cha mtakatifu agustino ( saut ) , dk.charles kitima , wametoana jasho kwenye mhadhara wa jumuiya ya wanafunzi wa saut , wakati walipokuwa wakijadili dhana ya maendeleo na amani ya nchi .
wakati umma ukiendelea kujadili rasimu ya katiba mpya iliyotolewa na tume ya katiba , kundi ambalo linaelekea kukumbwa na kimbunga kikubwa ni watu waliokuwa wanausaka ubunge ili kupata nafasi za uwaziri .
mbunge wa rombo ( chadema ) , joseph selasini , ’ amemshukia ’ mbunge wa mbinga magharibi ( ccm ) , john komba , kwa kutunga na kuimba nyimbo zinazochochea kuvuruga amani , umoja na mshikamano nchini .
kuna dalili kwamba tume ya katiba mpya chini ya mwenyekiti wake , jaji joseph warioba , imetaga yai la dhahabu .
pamoja na kila aina ya udhaifu ambao unaweza kutajwa kuwamo ndani ya rasimu ya katiba mpya ya jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania iliyowekwa hadharani jumatatu wiki hii , bado ukweli mmoja unabakia umesimama wima na kuonekana wazi na kila muungwana na anayeitakia nchi hii mema .
mbunge wa ccm ailipua serikali matokeo mabaya kidato cha nne kasi ya wabunge kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , kukosoa utekelezaji wa serikali ya rais jakaya kikwete inazidi kuongezeka ndani ya bunge .
jana , mbunge wa ngara ( ccm ) , deogratias ntukamazina , aliikosoa serikali hiyo kwa kuyafuta matokeo ya mtihani wa kidato cha nne kwa mwaka 2012 , kisha kuyatangaza utangaza upya hivi karibuni .
vyama vya wafanyakazi , wanasheria na walemavu vimesema rasimu ya katiba mpya utaleta katiba nzuri .
katibu mkuu wa chama cha walemavu tanzania ( shiviwata ) , elias masamaki , amesema rasimu ya katiba mpya inaonyesha kuwatendea haki walemavu kwa kupendekeza kuwa rais ateue wabunge walemavu kwa kuwa watasaidia kuwakomboa walemavu wenzao .
tabia ya utoro wa mawaziri na wabunge bungeni sasa limegeuka kuwa maisha ya kawaida hata wakati wa kujadili masuala nyeti yenye maslahi kwa taifa .
kuna wakati mbunge wa mwibara ( ccm ) , kangi lugora aliwahi kuomba bunge liahirishe mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya kilimo baada ya kuona idadi ndogo sana ya wabunge na mawaziri bungeni .
kumezuka tabia ya baadhi ya wabunge kujigeuza wasemaji wa serikali bungeni kazi ambayo kwa kawaida hufanywa na mawaziri .
kuna baadhi ya wabunge ambao wamesahu kwamba wajibu wao wa msingi ni kuikosoa na kusimamia serikali kuhakikisha inatimiza wajibu wake wa kutimiza ahadi na kuwaletea wananchi maendeleo .
wiki iliyopita , kikao cha bunge la bajeti katika kujadili hotuba ya waziri wa mambo ya nje na ushirikiano wa kimataifa , bernad membe , lilichafuka .
vurugu zikatokea kati ya wabunge wa vyama vinavyoungwa mkono kwa wingi nchini , chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) na chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) .
mbunge wa kondoa kaskazini , zabein mhita ( ccm ) , amedondosha machozi bungeni baada ya kukumbuka jinsi alivyolazimika kupanda kwenye mti ili kupokea simu ya msiba wa mwanae .
mhita ambaye aliwahi kuwa waziri wa sayansi na teknolojia na elimu ya juu , katika serikali ya awamu ya tatu iliyoongozwa rais mstaafu benjamin mkapa , alimwaga machozi jana wakati akichangia hotuba ya bajeti ya wizara ya mawasiliano , sayansi na teknolojia kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 .
waziri mkuu mstaafu , edward lowassa , amewataka watanzania kujenga utamaduni wa kuchangia masuala ya maendeleo katika maeneo walikotoka na sio kusubiri kurudishwa katika masanduku wakiwa marehemu .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , ameshiriki ibada ya maombi maalum kwa ajili ya kumuombea hayati baba wa taifa , mwalimu julisu nyerere .
maombi hayo yalifanyika katika mji wa namgongo nchini uganda yakiwa na lengo la kumtangaza mwalimu nyerere kuwa mwenye heri na hatimaye mtakatifu kulingana na na imani ya dhehebu la kikatoliki .
mbunge wa ngara , deogratias ntukamazina ( ccm ) , amesema baadhi ya watumishi wa halmashauri wana uwezo wa kuwaweka mfukoni wakaguzi wa mahesabu na kupewa hati safi na kuficha mapungufu .
wakati tume ya mabadiliko ya katiba ikizindua rasimu ya katiba ya jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania jijini dar es salaam leo , wananchi wengi wanashauku kubwa kujua kama itajibu masuala nyeti kama mfumo wa muungano , rasilimali , madaraka ya rais na mengine mengi .
wakati watanzania wakilalamikia mwenendo usioridhisha wa uendeshaji wa vikao vya bunge , naibu spika , job ndugai , ameibuka na kusema kuanzia sasa mbunge kutoka chama cha upinzani akifanya kitendo chochote cha utovu wa nidhamu bungeni hatachukuliwa hatua za kinidhamu .
chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) na chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) , vimeliangukia bunge na kuomba msahama kwa ’ machafuko ’ waliyoyasabisha jana bungeni mjini dodoma .
dalili za kukwama kwa bajeti ya wizara ya maendeleo ya mifugo , zimeonekana jana , baada ya wabunge kuitaka serikali kuongeza shilingi bilioni 40 katika bajeti ya wizara hiyo kwa mwaka 2013 / 2014 .
hotuba ya kambi rasmi ya upinzani kuhusu bajeti ya wizara ya mambo ya nje na ushrikiano wa kimataifa jana ilisababisha mtafaruku mkubwa bungeni na siku nzima bunge likakwama kufanya shughuli zake .
wabunge wameitaka serikali kuangalia upya misamaha ya kodi nchini ili kuokoa mabilioni ya fedha yanayopotea kila mwaka kutokana na misamaha hiyo .
walitoa rai hiyo jana katika mdahalo ulioandaliwa na asasi za kiraia nchini ( azaki ) , ikiwa ni sehemu ya shughuli zinazofanyika katika maonyesho ya asasi hizo yanayoendelea katika viwanja vya bunge mjini hapa .
mbunge wa jimbo la ludewa ccm ) , deo filikunjombe , amejikuta akibebwa juu juu na wananchi wake baada ya kuwasili katika kijiji cha lupingu , kilichopo katika tarafa ya mwambao wa ziwa nyasa , wilayani humo .
nchi za afrika zimetakiwa kuridhia na kusaini mkataba wa kupinga matumizi yasiyo sahihi ya silaha ambazo hazina alama yoyote ili kupunguza uhalifu katika nchi hizo .
hayo yalielezwa jijini dar es salaam na mbunge wa korogwe mjini ( ccm ) , yusuph abdallah nassir , wakati akifungua mkutano wa mtandao wabunge wanaopigania demokrasia , amani , utawala wa sheria , na haki za binadamu duniani .
upelelezi wa kesi ya kuchochea kutenda kosa na kusababisha uvunjifu wa amani katika chuo cha uhasibu njiro inayomkabili mbunge wa arusha mjini godbless lema umekamilika .
naibu waziri wa sayansi na teknolojia , january makamba , anatuhumiwa kushiriki kuchochea wananchi ili wafanye uasi na kujichukulia sheria mkononi kwa kuwahamasisha kuvamia kiwanda cha kusindika chai cha mponde ambao wamefanya uharibifu mkubwa wilayani lushoto .
mjumbe wa kamati teule ya bunge iliyoundwa na spika anne makinda , wiki iliyopita kwa ajili ya kuchunguza kiini cha mgogoro wa ujenzi wa bomba la gesi kutoka mtwara kwenda dar es salaam , ramo makani , ’ amewatuliza ’ wanafunzi wa vyuo vya elimu ya juu wanaotoka mikoa ya kusini , akiwataka kukaa pembeni na kuiachia kamati hiyo kutafuta ukweli wa madai ya wakazi wa mkoa wa mtwara .
wabunge wameijia juu serikali wakitaka wawekezaji na vigogo waliojilimbikizia ardhi kubwa bila kuiendeleza wafutiwe umiliki ili igawiwe kwa wananchi wasio na ardhi .
walitoa ushauri huo jana wakati wakichangia makadirio ya mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi .
mbunge wa kisesa ( ccm ) , luhaga mpina leo anatarajia kuwasilisha bungeni maelezo binafsi kwa spika , juu ya matumizi ya kawaida ya serikali kuwa makubwa kuliko mapato ya ndani na hivyo kusababisha deni la taifa kuongezeka .
spika wa bunge , anne makinda , jumamosi aliunda kamati ya bunge kwenda kuchunguza chanzo cha vurugu mtwara , uamuzi huo wa spika , umepingwa na mbunge wa ubungo , ( chadema ) , john mnyika ambaye amezungumza na mwandishi wetu kuhusu mambo aliyodai kuwa spika amekiuka kanuni za bunge .
bila kumung ’ unya maneno naweza kurudia yaliyowahi kusemwa , yanayosemwa na yanayoendelea kusemwa kuhusu upendeleo wa spika wa bunge , anne makinda , dhidi ya wabunge wa ccm .
yamesemwa mengi kuhusu namna anavyoliendesha bunge kishabiki , inavyoonekana hafanyi hivyo kwa matakwa yake bali kwa shinikizo la waliomweka madarakani .
kambi ya rasmi ya upinzani bungeni , imeorodhesha mashamba 36 yenye ukubwa wa maelfu ya hekta za ardhi ambayo wananchi waliporwa kimabavu na serikali kwa kutofuata sheria na kisha kupewa wawekezaji .
mbunge wa tabora mjini ( ccm ) , aden rage , ameitaka serikali kuongeza ada ya usajili wa magezeti hadi kufikia sh. milioni 500 badala ya sh .
500,000 ilivyo sasa .
rage alitoa kauli hiyo jana bungeni alipokuwa akiuliza swali la nyongeza , akiitaka serikali kuongeza ada ya usajili hadi kufikia sh .
mbunge wa mtwara mjini , hasnain mohamed murji , amesema wananchi wa mtwara hawazuii gesi asilia kusafirishwa kwenda dar es salaam , bali wanachotaka ni kuwapo kwa mchanganuo wa jinsi watakavyonufaika na mradi huo .
katibu mkuu wa wizara ya nishati na madini , eliakim maswi , amezozana na mbunge wa simanjiro ( ccm ) , christopher ole sendeka , kwa kile kinachoelezwa kuchukizwa na tabia ya mbunge huyo ya kuipiga ’ mawe ’ mazito hoja za wizara hiyo .
mbunge wa arusha mjini ( chadema ) , godbless lema , amelishutumu jeshi la polisi mkoani arusha kwamba limekwa kipeperushi cha mkuu wa mkoa wa huo , magesa mulongo , kutokana na kutumika katika kumsafisha katika sakata la kutumiwa ujumbe wa vitisho katika simu yake ya mkononi .
uamuzi wa spika wa bunge , anne makinda , jumamosi kuunda kamati ya bunge kwenda kuchunguza chanzo cha vurugu mtwara umepingwa na mbunge wa ubungo , ( chadema ) , john mnyika .
mnyika anasema bunge lilipaswa kuunda kamati teule badala yake spika ameunda kamati yake maalum ambayo haitazingatia kwa ukamilifu matakwa ya sheria ya kinga , haki na madaraka ya bunge katika kuwahoji mashahidi na kuitisha ushahidi .
baraza la habari la tanzania ( mct ) , limemshukia mbunge kondoa kusini ( ccm ) , juma nkamia , kwa hatua yake ya kulipuuza baraza hilo wakati alishawahi kunufaika nalo kwa kupelekwa india yeye na wadau wengine wa habari kujifunza sheria na haki za kupata habari ziara iliyogharimu sh .
wabunge jana walijadili rasimu ya sera ya elimu huku wakitofautiana kuhusiana na suala la watoto wenye umri wa miaka mitatu kuanza shule ya awali kutokana na mazingira ya vijijini kutofautiana na yale ya mijini .
mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya nishati na madini kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 umesitishwa na kuondolewa bungeni ili kuepuka kuchochea vurugu za mtwara .
bajeti hiyo ambayo ilianza kujadiliwa juzi na kupangiwa kumalizika jana , sasa itajadiliwa katika tarehe itakayopangwa kutokana na kuhofia michango ya wabunge kuwa inaweza kuchochea vurugu za gesi mkoani mtwara .
kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni imeibua upya sakata la aliyekuwa katibu mkuu wa wizara ya nishati na madini , david jairo na richmond , huku ikilishutumu bunge kwamba , limeshindwa kusimamia utekelezwaji wa maazimio yake .
kamanda wa polisi wa mkoa wa arusha , liberatus sabas , amedai uchunguzi wa awali kuhusu ujumbe unaodaiwa kutumwa na mkuu wa mkoa wa arusha , magesa mulongo , umetumwa na mtandao wa simu wa nje ya nchi .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( chadema ) , rebecca mngodo , amesema ameshangaa kuona hotuba yote ya bajeti ya wizara ya habari , vijana , utamaduni na michezo kutozungumzia kutekwa , kuteswa na kuuawa kwa waandishi wa habari ingawa wako chini ya wizara hiyo .
jukwaa la wahariri tanzania ( tef ) limesema halioni kama kulikuwa na hali ya uchochezi kwenye hotuba iliyowasilishwa na msemaji wa kambi ya upinzani bungeni dodoma juzi , kuhusu makadirio ya mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya habari , vijana utamaduni na michezo .
wanasheria wana usemi kwamba katika kusimamia sheria siyo kutenda haki tu bali haki ionekane ikitendeka ’ .
wanatoa usemi huu wanapojenga hoja kwamba katika kutenda haki ni lazima mchakato wote wa kusimamia haki hiyo uonekana ukisimama kwenye mstari wa haki .
kwa muda mrefu sasa , wananchi nchini nikiwamo mimi , wamekuwa wakishangazwa na baadhi ya wabunge wanaotoa michango na maoni bungeni , wanapokuwa wakichangia hoja , wanasoma kama hotuba ; hali inayoashiria tuamini huenda miongoni mwao wana uelewa mdogo wa kujenga hoja .
mbunge wa iringa mjini ( chadema ) , mchungaji peter msigwa , ameachiwa kwa dhamana baada ya kufikishwa katika mahakama ya hakimu mkazi wilaya ya iringa na watuhumiwa wengine 74 kufuatia vurugu zilizotokea juzi kati ya wafanyabiashara wadogo maarufu kama wamachinga na polisi mjini hapa .
hotuba ya kambi ya upinzani kuhusu makadirio na mapato na matumizi ya wizara ya habari , vijana , utamaduni na michezo , jana ilisababisha shughuli za bunge kusitishwa kwa muda , kwa kile kilichoelezwa kuwa imejaa maneno ya uchochezi .
vurugu kubwa zimezuka kati ya wafanyabiashara ndogo ndogo ( machinga ) na jeshi la polisi mkoani iringa na kusababisha maduka kufungwa , huduma mbalimbali ikiwamo ibada za jumapili kusitishwa baada ya jeshi hilo kutumia nguvu , kuwatawanya wafanyabiashara hao katika eneo la mashine tatu , manispaa ya iringa .
mkutano wa 11 wa bunge la bajeti kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 unaoendelea wiki hii utatawaliwa na moto mkali utakaowashwa dhidi ya wizara ya nishati na madini kutokana na kukabiliwa na changamoto mbalimbali , miongoni mwake , suala la gesi asilia , upatikanaji wa umeme na kiporo cha hatma ya aliyekuwa katibu mkuu wa wizara hiyo , david jairo .
wabunge waipasha serikali kuacha papara ya kuingia kwenye mikataba ya uchimbaji gesi asilia , kwani itaipeleka nchi pabaya na kuiingiza kwenye hasara kama ilivyotokea kwenye mikataba tata ya madini .
kambi zinazipongana ndani ya chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) kuelekea uchaguzi mkuu wa 2015 , zajiimarisha ndani ya bunge , nipashe jumapili limebaini .
mkakati huo unadaiwa kutekelezwa kupitia kamati kadhaa za bunge , mojawapo ikiwa ni kamati ya kudumu ya miundombinu inayoongozwa na mbunge wa kigoma mjini ( ccm ) , peter serukamba .
mbunge wa igunga ( ccm ) , dk .
peter kafumu , amewataka polisi kuwakamata wapinga maendeleo wa jimbo hilo bila kujali wanatoka chama gani .
serikali imetakiwa kuboresha mamlaka ya bandari tanzania ( tpa ) kwakuwa ni tegemeo kubwa la mapato na uchumi wa taifa .
wakichangia bajeti ya wizara ya uchukuzi jana na juzi , wabunge mbalimbali waliozungumza walisema tanzania ina bahati kwa kuzungukwa na nchi sita ambazo zinategemea bandari hiyo .
juhudi za mbuge wa viti maalum ( ccm ) , zarina madabida , kukinusuru kiwanda cha tanzania pharmaceutical industries limited ( tpi ) na kashfa ya kuhusika na dawa bandia za kupunguza makali ya ukimwi ( arv ) , zimeendelea kugonga mwamba baada ya taasisi mbili za serikali kusisitiza kwamba kinahusika na janga hilo .
ofisi ya bunge mjini dodoma , imewataka wabunge wote kuanzia jana kutoegesha magari yao nje ya ukuta wa jengo la bunge kutokana na matishio ya kiulinzi na kiusalama .
tangazo hilo lilisomwa jana ndani ya ukumbi wa bunge na mwenyekiti wa bunge , musa azan zungu .
chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) kimesema kinaungana na watanzania walioonyesha shaka juu ya mchakato wa kupata katiba mpya kwani hakioni nia njema na utayari wa tume kuwa na katiba inayotokana na maoni ya wananchi .
waziri mkuu mstaafu na mbunge wa monduli , edward lowassa ametoa wito wa kuwepo kwa mjadala mpana na wa kina zaidi juu ya tatizo la ajira kwa vijana nchini .
akizungumza katika uzinduzi wa kitabu kinachozungumzia na kutathmini mzozo wa kiuchumi duniani kwa kuiangalia tanzania , jijini dar es salaam jana , lowassa alisema ni muhimu kwa wadau wote wakiwepo wasomi , wanasiasa , wafanyabishara na wananchi wasiyo na ajira hususan vijana , kushiriki katika mjadala huo na kutoa mapendekezo ya suluhisho la tatizo hilo .
wakati rais jakaya kikwete akifikia nusu ya kipindi chake cha pili cha utawala cha miaka mitano na mawaziri wake wakiwasilisha bajeti zao bungeni dodoma , mwishoni mwa wiki hii atakutana na wabunge wote wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) pamoja na mambo mengine kujadili utekelezaji wa ilani ya uchaguzi ya chama hicho kwa kipindi cha 2010-2015 .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni imeibua kashfa nzito dhidi ya wabunge na waziri kumiliki mradi wa kuzalisha umeme wa upepo , singida na kwenda kuuombea dola za marekani milioni 134 kwa ridhaa ya serikali .
wananchi waliowekeza fedha zao katika kampuni ya development enterpreneurship for community initiative ( deci ) , wametakiwa kuendelea kuwa na subiri wakati sakata la kampuni hiyo likiwa linashughulikiwa .
msemaji mkuu wa kambi ya upinzani katika wizara ya ujenzi , said arfi ( chadema ) , ameonya tabia ya baadhi ya wabunge kuziponda hotuba za kambi za upinzani hata pale zinapotoa mwelekeo wa kujenga maendeleo ya nchi .
mbunge wa nkasi ( ccm ) , ally keissy , jana alisutwa na baadhi wabunge wa ccm kwa hatua yake ya kutounga mkono bajeti ya wizara ya ujenzi .
hatua hiyo ilifuatia wakati kessy akichangia bajeti ya wizara hiyo jana , tofuati na wabunge wengine wa chama hicho kuipongeza wizara ya ujenzi kwa kazi nzuri ya ujenzi wa barabara , alisema haiungi mkono mpaka waziri atakapompa maelezo kuhusu ujenzi wa barabara za sumbawanga .
mbunge wa ludewa , deo filikunjombe ( ccm ) , ( pichani kuliau ) amewataka mawaziri nchini kuiga mfano wa waziri wa ujenzi dk .
john maufuli , wa kugawa rasilimali za nchi kwa watu wote .
filikunjombe aliyasema hayo jana wakati akichangia hotuba ya bajeti ya wizara ya ujenzi kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 .
serikali imesema kuwa itapiga marufuku uuzaji wa ngozi ghafi nje ya nchi kutokana na tanzania kuwa nchi pekee inayouzwa ngozi ambayo haijasindikwa tofauti na nchi nyingine .
uamuzi huo ulitangazwa na waziri wa viwanda na bishara , dk .
mbunge wa kawe , halima mdee ( chadema ) , ( pichani ) ameitaka serikali kutoa maelezo kuhusu utata wa uuzaji wa nyumba 150 za kiwanda cha saruji , wazo , jijini dar es salaam .
alisema mwaka 2011 alipeleka barua kwenye wizara husika kutaka maelezo kuhusu nyumba hizo , ambazo zilikuwa zimewekwa kwenye mchakato wa kuuzwa .
wabunge jana walikuja juu na kuishambulia mifuko ya hifadhi ya jamii wakisema kuwa haiwanufaishi wanachama wake .
moja ya mambo ambayo wabunge hao walilalamikia katika semina hiyo iliyoandaliwa na mamlaka ya usimamizi na udhibiti wa mifuko ya jamii ( ssra ) , ni kuwa wanachama hawanufaiki ni bei kubwa za nyumba zinazouzwa na mifuko hiyo .
halmashauri ya wilaya ya nzega mkoani tabora imeingia katika kashfa ya ufujaji wa fedha kwa kuandaa ziara za ’ ulaji ’ pamoja na kuunda kamati za uchunguzi zisizo na manufaa .
wakati wizara ya fedha ikiwa haijawasilisha bajeti yake ya 2013 / 2014 , mamlaka ya mapato tanzania ( tra ) inadaiwa kupandisha ushuru wa forodha kinyemela .
uchunguzi umebaini kuwa ushuru wa forodha uliopandishwa ni kwa bidhaa zinazotoka nje ya nchi , hali ambayo imezua malalamiko kutoka kwa wafanyabiashara wanaoagiza bidhaa kutoka nje .
mahakama ya rufaa nchini imetengua maamuzi ya mahakama kuu na kumrudishia ubunge wake dk .
peter dalali kafumu ( ccm ) wa jimbo la igunga baada ya kuridhika ha hoja za upande wa mrufani kuwa jaji aliyesikiliza shauri hilo , hakuzingatia matakwa ya kisheria .
juzi jioni wakati wa mjadala wa hotuba ya bajeti ya wizara ya afya na ustawi wa jamii , mbunge wa viti maalum kupitia chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , zarina madabida , alitumia fursa adhimu ya kujadili masuala ya kitaifa kuhusu afya ya watanzania kushambulia watu na taasisi nyingine ambazo haziwezi kufika bungeni kujibu tuhuma hizo .
mahakama ya rufaa imemrejeshea , aeshi hilary ( ccm ) kiti cha ubunge katika jimbo la sumbawanga mjini .
hukumu hiyo ilisomwa jana mahakamani hapo kwa takribani saa 1 : 30 na naibu msajili wa mahakama ya rufaa , zahra maluma .
kambi ya upinzani bungeni , imeionya serikali kuacha kufanya mzaha na amani ya nchi kwa sababu kutoshughulikia wahalifu wanaoivunja amani ni sawa na kuivunja amani moja kwa moja .
akisoma hotuba ya upinzani kuhusiana na bajeti ya wizara ya mambo ya ndani kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 , msemaji wa kambi hiyo , vincent nyerere , alisema kuna umuhimu wa kutafakari jambo hilo kwa mustakabali wa taifa .
kampuni saba za mawasiliano nchini zimeunganishwa kwenye mkongo wa taifa kwa ajili ya kutoa huduma zao kwa wateja .
akizungumza bungeni jana , naibu waziri , ofisi ya makamu wa rais , charles kitwanga alisema mkongo huo wa mawasiliano ulianza kutumika tangu julai , 2010 .
wabunge wametakiwa kupeleka ofisi ya waziri mkuu , tawala za mikoa na serikali za mitaa ( tamisemi ) orodha ya halmashauri ambazo hazitengi fedha za mafunzo kwa wenyeviti wa mitaa na vijiji .
naibu spika wa bunge , job ndugai , amesema karibu nusu ya watumishi wa taasisi ya bunge ni mzigo .
aliyasema hayo jana wakati akichangia katika semina ya wabunge ya mfumo mpya wa usimamizi na ufuatiliaji wa miradi ya maendeleo ili kupata matokeo makubwa sasa .
mbunge wa viti maalum ( ccm ) , vicky kamata , ( pichani kulia ) amatarajiwa kugawa vitabu 5,000 vya masomo ya sayansi , kiingereza na hesabu kwa shule mbalimbali za kata za mkoa wa geita kwa lengo la kuendeleza elimu .
ni jambo lisilopingika kwamba , serikali ya awamu nne chini ya uongozi wa rais jakaya kikwete imekwenda mbali zaidi katika upanuzi wa demokrasia nchini .
bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania ni mfano mmojawapo wa ustawi wa demokrasia nchini .
maryamu salum msabaha : wabunge wa zanzibar wasigeuzwe ' mbuzi wa albadiri ' ni mbunge wa kwanza wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania wa viti maalum kutoka zanzibar , ambaye ameamua kujitokeza hadharani kupinga kwa nguvu zake zote kile anachokiita & ldquo ; wabunge kutoka visiwani zanzibar kugeuzwa ’ mbuzi wa albadiri ’ .
kamati ya watu saba iliyoundwa kuchunguza mfumo mzima katika sekta ya ujenzi hapa nchini , imeongezewa muda wa wiki mbili baada ya kushindwa kukamilisha kazi yake kutokana na kukosa nyaraka mbalimbali .
kiongozi wa kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni , freeman mbowe , amelalamikia kitendo cha wabunge wengi wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) waliokuwa wamepangwa kuchangia mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya maliasili na utalii kwa mwaka 2013 / 14 , kutofanya hivyo na hivyo , kusababisha muda pamoja na mamilioni ya shilingi za kuendesha shughuli za bunge kupotea .
mbunge wa nkenge , assumpter mshamba ( ccm ) , amelitaka shirikisho la soka tanzania ( tff ) kutoa nafasi kwa wataalam wake wa ufundi kuzunguka katika mikoa yote nchini kusaka vipaji vipya vitakavyojiunga na timu ya taifa & ldquo ; taifa stars ’ .
naibu waziri wa ujenzi , gerson lwenge , amegeuka mbogo baada ya mmoja wa wamiliki wa magari ya mizigo kumwambia amewadanganya wabunge kuwa hafahamu ucheleweshaji wa vibali vya magari ya kunyanyulia vitu vizito .
tuhuma dhidi ya katibu mkuu wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , abdulrahman kinana , ( pichani ) kuhusika katika usafirishaji wa pembe za ndovu , zimewalazimisha wabunge kadhaa wa ccm kumsafisha .
kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni , imemlipua katibu mkuu wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , abdulrahman kinana , ikidai kuwa shehena ya pembe za ndovu zenye uzito wa tani nne kutoka tanzania na kenya zilizokamatwa nchini vietnam mwaka 2009 , zilisafirishwa na kampuni inayomilikiwa na yeye pamoja na mkewe .
mbunge wa jimbo la msalala , ezekiel maige , amesema anakusudia kuikataa bajeti ya wizara ya ardhi , nyumba na maendeleo ya makazi ikiwa haitatenga fedha za kupima viwanja vya wilayani kahama . & ldquo ; nguvu za mayonda hufilia nyangwani . & rdquo ; nyani wawapo kwenye kiini cha msitu au mikoko huwa stadi ila watokapo n-nje karibu na bahari huwa rahisi kushambuliwa .
methali hii hutumiwa kwa mtu au watu wanaotumia vyeo vyao vibaya .
nikihesabu kwa haraka haraka , hii ni mara ya tatu sasa katika kipindi kisichopungua miaka miwili , wabunge wa bunge la jamhuri ya muungano wa tanzania kuikatalia serikali kupitisha bajeti zake zinazowasilishwa bungeni .
umati mkubwa wa wakazi wa jiji la arusha wakiwamo wanachama wa chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , jana ulifurika eneo la mahakama ya hakimu mkazi arusha wakati mbunge wa jimbo la arusha , godbless lema ( chadema ) , alipofikishwa mahakamani hapo na kusomewa tuhuma za uchochezi .
wakati serikali ikijikusanya huko na huko ili kuongeza bajeti ya wizara ya maji kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 2014 kutoka sh. bilioni 398.4 zilizokuwa zimetengwa awali hadi sh. bilioni 582 .
mbunge wa mtera , livingstone lusinde ( ccm ) maarufu kibajaji , amesema atawaongoza wananchi wa jimbo lake kwenda kuvamia shamba la zabibu na kugawana , iwapo serikali itashindwa kuliendeleza eneo hilo hadi kufikia mwishoni mwa mwaka huu .
wiki iliyopita nilinukuu barua pepe ya mwalimu kuhusu viboko mashuleni , na mimi nikaongezea ya kwangu .
nilipigiwa simu na mwalimu mwenzangu mmoja , maana mwandishi wa habari nawe ni mwalimu wa umma .
kambi rasmi ya upinzani bungeni imeitaka serikali kusitisha mara moja mpango wake wa kuruhusu watu wachache kuagiza mchele kutoka nje ya nchi , ambao haulipiwi ushuru .
kiongozi wa kambi hiyo , freeman mbowe , alisema hayo alipozungumza na waandishi wa habari katika ofisi za bunge na kutangaza uamuzi wa kambi yake wa kuanzisha utaratibu mpya wa kuzungumza na vyombo vya habari kila wiki juu ya mambo yanayojiri bungeni .
mkutano wa 11 wa bunge la bajeti kwa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 2014 unaendelea leo , huku shauku kubwa ya watanzania ikijielekeza zaidi kutaka kujua kama bajeti ya wizara ya maji imeongezewa fedha za kutosha , ili kulipatia ufumbuzi wa uhakika tatizo kubwa la maji nchini , hasa katika maeneo ya vijijini , lililolalamikiwa na wabunge wote na kusababisha kutoiunga mkono .
wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) , jana walishambuliana huku waliokuwa mstari wa mbele kuikosoa serikali katika vikao vya bajeti vinavyoendelea mjini dodoma wakituhumiwa kukiua chama na kukipa nguvu chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) .
wabunge wamempa wakati mgumu waziri wa maji , profesa jummanne maghembe , baada ya kumtuhumu kuwa anajipendelea kutokana na kupeleka sh. bilioni 32 katika miradi ya maji kwenye wilaya ya mwanga anayotoka huku fedha za uchangia wa miradi ya maji katika vijiji 10 kwa kila halmashauri nchini ikitengewa sh .
bunge limeingilia kati kuunusuru mfuko wa pensheni kwa watumishi wa serikali ( pspf ) , ambao umeelezwa kwamba umefilisika huku serikali ikikiri kuwa chanzo cha hali hiyo , na kuomba radhi .
serikali imepinga hoja ya mbunge wa moshi vijijini ( ccm ) , dk .
cyril chami , kuhusu kasi ya maendeleo katika jimbo la hai linalowakilishwa na freeman mbowe ( chadema ) .
jopo la majaji watatu wa mahakama ya rufaa ya tanzania wanatarajia kuanza kusikiliza rufaa ya aliyekuwa mbunge wa igunga ( ccm ) , dk .
dalaly kafumu , aliyevuliwa ubunge na mahamaa kuu kanda ya tabora .
mbunge wa kisesa , luhaga mpina ( ccm ) , amekabidhi uthibitisho wa takwimu zinazoonyesha kuwa deni la taifa linaongezeka kwa sababu matumizi ya serikali yanazidi mapato ya ndani .
tanzania imesafirisha jumla ya tani 371,317 za samaki na mazao ya uvuvi nje ya nchini .
naibu waziri wa maendeleo ya mifugo na uvuvi , benedict ole nangoro , alisema hayo alipokuwa akijibu swali la mbunge wa wawi , hamad rashid mohamed ( cuf ) .
wabunge watano wa chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) waliofukuzwa bungeni wiki iliyopita na kupewa adhabu ya siku tano ya kutohudhuria vikao vya bunge la bajeti , wameanza kukusanya orodha ya wananchi katika mikoa minne , wakiomba ridhaa yao kuunga mkono hoja binafsi itakayowasilishwa bungeni baada ya aprili 30 , mwaka huu .
mbunge wa kawe ( chadema ) , halima mdee , ameshangazwa na baraza la mawaziri kwa kushindwa kumshauri rais jakaya kikwete , ambaye anahofiwa kudanganywa kuiruhusu kampuni ya kimarekani ya mosanto inayozalisha mbegu za vyakula zinazosababisha watoto kuzaliwa taahira .
mbunge wa mwibara ( ccm ) , kangi lugola , jana alilazimika kuomba mwongozo wa spika kutokana na baadhi ya mawaziri na naibu mawaziri , ' kukacha ' mjadala wa bajeti ya wizara ya kilimo , chakula na ushirika ya mwaka 2013 / 2014 .
kuna methali isemayo : & ldquo ; mchimba kisima huingia mwenyewe . & rdquo ; maana yake mtu anayemchimbia mwenziye shimo kwa dhamira mbaya huishia kuingia mwenyewe .
methali hii hutumiwa kumshauri mtu anayekusudia kumfanyia ubaya mwenzake kuwa huenda ubaya huo ukamrudia yeye .
wabunge wanne kati ya sita wa chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) ambao wiki iliyopita walifukuzwa bungeni kwa utovu wa nidhamu , wamesema watanzabia watarajie kutokea mwa mambo mamkuwa ikiwa kiti cha spika kitaendelea kuwabeba wabunge wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) na kuwanandamiza wa upinzani .
serikali imetangaza neema kwa wakulima ikisema katika msimu wa mwaka wa fedha wa 2013 / 14 , kupitia vikundi na vyama vya ushirika , watapata mikopo ya muda mfupi na yenye riba nafuu kwa ajili ya kununulia pembejeo .
uchaguzi mdogo katika jimbo la chambani , pemba , unatarajia kufanyika juni 16 , mwaka huu .
uchaguzi huo unafanyika kufuatia kifo cha aliyekuwa mbunge wa jimbo hilo kupitia chama cha wananchi ( cuf ) , salum hemed hamis , kufariki dunia machi 28 , mwaka huu .
mbunge wa singida mashariki ( chadema ) , tundu lissu , amesema fujo zitaisha bungeni ikiwa spika wa bunge , naibu na wenyeviti watafuata na kusimamia kanuni za bunge bila kupendelea upande wowote .
mahakama ya rufani tanzania leo inaanza kupitia maombi ya mapitio ya hukumu ya mahakama ya rufaa iliyomrejeshea ubunge mbunge wa arusha mjini ( chadema ) , godbless lema .
mahakama hiyo inapitia maombi hayo ambayo yaliwasilishwa mahakamani hapo na makada watatu wa chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) waliopinga ubunge wa lema , na kufanikiwa kumvua ubunge kabla ya mahakama ya rufaa kumrejeshea wadhifa wake wakitaja sababu za kuomba hukumu hiyo ipitiwe upya .
bunge leo linaendelea na kikao chake huku wabunge sita wa chama cha demokrasia na maendeleo ( chadema ) , waliozuiwa kuingia ndani ya ukumbi huo kwa muda wa siku tano wakiwa wamebakiza siku moja kumaliza adhabu yao .
pata kibonzo chako kila siku toka kwa kabwela , the flexibles na dogo & ldquo ; the only available job for people of my age who didn ’ t go to school is to collect plastic bottles in the streets and sell them , & rdquo ; she said .
scalia : the devil ' is getting people not to believe in him or in god 'cbs localscalia says satan is ' a real person 'cnn ( blog ) in depth : antonin scalia on the washington post , “ seinfeld ” and the devilwashington post ( blog ) see all 76 sourcesrelated antonin scalia the eu has also raised concern on the restrictions on publication of news on their websites .
according to a statement , press freedom and freedom of expression are fundamental rights of the people which call for circumspection and proportionality in the application of the laws that govern the media .
the said : & ldquo ; it is the duty of the media to work within the law and to make every effort to adopt and adhere to professional standards . & rdquo ; the press has a key role to play in informing society and in promoting values and rights .
the role of the press is also important to continue deepening the democratization process , reads part of the statement . & ldquo ; i am informed that the new information bill is already on the table and that in the process of discussing the issue of the repeal of the newspaper act of 1976 some changes might be amended , & rdquo ; he said .
he said he has decided to take a normal way to present the bill and avoid a long procedure so as to pave the way for information stakeholders to participate effectively in the currently constitutional review process .
in view of this , he said he has presented the bill so that it is printed in the government gazette in accordance with the parliamentary procedures and rules so that it might be read for the first time and then be passed over to the stakeholders for discussion for its review and then later on to be read in parliament. his right ear cut off and his penis and testicles shoved into a gourd .
he was later moved to the central prison but the damage has their crime was to be members of msd , the movement for the house of a frodebu leader killing his 7-year-old son and leaving him gravely later , in the far east of the country , in the small town of the result was the death of four and the hospitalisation of member of a political party that is not the one that is in power is a crime and the third option is to return to the violence and permanent this is not a choice that the opposition , or any citizen turned a blind eye to all these manoeuvrings and abuses of human rights and of the party in power to stop arresting , torturing and assassinating the political boys ' club and no one was going to rock the boat in this period of multiple and the results of the elections known before the populace even goes to the polls .
the eac has chosen to support the perpetrators of abuse and not the we realise that if democracy is to be saved , it is for us and courageous in burundi .
we cannot return to the dictatorships that have to be an example to the region .
we need to show how political pluralism can what is the value of the east african community if its if we are serious about democracy in africa we need to stop the naiveté of the foreign ministers in the region was is he said , " the eac will insist on the democratisation of all member states to we need to hold our leaders accountable so that all can will pay it for them .
nor will they obtain it on credit . "
roadwork projects in abilene and area this week sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt man charged in friday stabbing in abilene sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt helicopter crashes in cottle county sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 27 pm edt new group joins the eveline rivers christmas toy run sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt sxsw eco begins mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 27 am edt ny probes rights sold to ’ world trade center ’ mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 27 am edt health takes center stage at ndale del rio sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt hospital soon to be smoke-free sun oct 6 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt early voting deadlines looming fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt texas ’ rick perry faults obama for standoff fri oct 4 , 2013 8 : 27 pm edt lobo cheerleaders to host camp mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 27 am edt area residents form life chain in longview to pray for end to procedure mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 27 am edt kilgore man charged in teen ’ s weekend shooting death sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 27 pm edt lawmen investigating womans death mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt patrons celebrate at bistro mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt air jefferson delights those who had patience sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 27 am edt mhs crimestoppers preparing for annual telethon sun oct 6 , 2013 06 : 27 am edt thunderfest to host auction for toy drive mon oct 7 , 2013 12 : 27 am edt even the botanical gardens is in the hallo ...
mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 27 am edt robinsons road reconstruction off to strong start mon oct 7 , 2013 02 : 27 am edt plane flips in robinson field wed oct 2 , 2013 6 : 27 pm edt click the " forgot password " link under the login box located on the upper right corner of the page .
a : to log in to the website , enter the username and password you received via email in the username and password filed located q : what do i do if i 've forgotton my password ... to the email address on record for the account .
note , the browser limit will typically be reached only if you try logging in to the site q : what do i do if i 've received the " browser limit exceeded " error page ...
q : what are newsstand credits and how are they used ...
what can be sold in 140 characters ?
that ’ s now the challenge for twitter jk , kagame : let bygones be bygones na the guardian reporter the president sounded satisfaction on steps taken by the government in the wake of concerns he raised in his end of july speech concerning the spate of armed robberies and illegal immigration .
he said that his visit to the united states led to acceptance of a request for 2.4 million textbooks for science and math , to enable each secondary school student to have a book of his or her own in the subjects .
automotivebridalbusinesseducationfamily livingfashion / fitnessgift ideasgreen livinghealthhome decoratinghome improvement / constructionhot topicshow-tokitchen / bed / bathlawn / gardenmoney / financepetsreal estaterecipes / entertainingseasonalsenior livingtech talk / innovationtravel back to school road triptips on making smart tire choicesnaval aviation an exciting opportunity to keep america secure via air and seanascar driver drives to stop diabetescool car upgrades : how to enhance your ride and ease back-to-school stressbuying a car : new or used , that is the questiontips for safe vacation travelseniors and driving : the importance of having early and frequent conversations with senior loved onesten reasons why buying a new car might be cheaper than you thinktips for summer fun and summer savingspreparation is key when driving in winter weathertips to get the most out of your car this seasonhow to keep a speeding ticket out of your summerdriving with dogs : tips to keep everyone in the car safehow to save money on summer road trips september 18 , 2013 i trust our fellow caricom brethren have maintained a watchful eye on the ongoing saga involving the government of belize ’ s implausible call for belizeans to vote , via referendum , on whether or not to take guatemala ’ s unfounded claim on our sovereign territory to the international court of justice ( icj ) .
september 9 , 2013 will she be like margaret thatcher ?
or as charismatic as benazir or as bold as portia simpson or trinidad ’ s kamla persad bissesar will it be she who stood up to oceana endorsed by mr machiavelli when he dubbed her persona non grata that she was destined to be belize ’ s first female ...
commentary : dugu for tourism is an insult to garinagu , but its potency could be useful elsewhere commentary : the return of justice to the people of dangriga town and the south commentary : a questionable future for the garifuna people in the south of belize commentary : it is not only about voting but all rights idb approves up to $ 100 million for poverty alleviation in dominican republic bovada gives you a chance to win a seat at this year 's sizzling hot punta cana poker classic in dominican republic uk aid for trade helps pave the way for epa implementation in the interests of the protection of our users ' privacy across the km group 's portfolio of websites , we are adopting the following we want to ensure that all of our visitors are made aware of the prefer , you can set your browser to refuse cookies .
you should be properly if you do not accept the cookies sent by them. experience , but are not controlled in your web browser in the same barren grand jury indicts man on child sex crimes sun oct 6 , 2013 04 : 14 am edt bgpd looking at program sun oct 6 , 2013 04 : 14 am edt n.ky. shooting victim in ’ high spirits ’ tue aug 20 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt special session for redistricting in ky . tue aug 20 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt classes begin at nku with new changes tue aug 20 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt bailey dominates in 9-1 win over brewers mon aug 19 , 2013 02 : 14 am edt vaught ’ s views : marquis teague leaving for nba ’ got ’ uk , calipari says sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 14 am edt visitors see the life of a soldier at perryville sat oct 5 , 2013 8 : 14 pm edt popular safety city and dare programs on the city ’ s chopping block wed jun 20 , 2012 02 : 14 am edt man admits beating his girlfriend ’ s grandmother to death wed jun 20 , 2012 02 : 14 am edt teen convicted in friend ’ s slaying to continue treatment fri oct 7 , 2011 10 : 14 am edt 2,300 in lexington for state ffa convention , and they ’ re not all farmers fri oct 7 , 2011 10 : 14 am edt police make arrest in string of gas station robberies mon oct 7 , 2013 06 : 14 am edt in the berkshires : religion in brief sat oct 5 , 2013 12 : 28 pm edt i-91 roadwork update sat oct 5 , 2013 12 : 28 pm edt wilmington works on flood preparedness sat oct 5 , 2013 04 : 28 am edt i-91 roadwork update sat oct 5 , 2013 04 : 28 am edt hay sculptures take over killington sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 28 pm edt judging underway in solar decathlon sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 28 pm edt fight rages in maine over tar sands oil sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 28 pm edt vt town , factory get natural gas mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 28 am edt kigoda praises dangote group project in mtwara na the guardian reporter in his opening remarks , the nigerian high commissioner to tanzania , dr ishaya majaribu commended the investment by nigerian dangote group of companies .
tanzania gets hints on easing dar traffic jams na waryoba yankami for his part , ejec general manager in tanzania , tatsumi tokunaga said his company is planning on cooperating with local engineering consultants so as to attract more investors in the country .
envía aquí tus nominaciones para " héroes de mi barrio " , iniciativa de telemundo washington en reconocimiento de quienes trabajan para mejorar nuestra ...
deliciosa bebida de frambuesa , lechuga asada y otras ideas originales de la chef ...
lleva a tu hogar el sabor de la cocina mexicana , un símbolo de tradición que nos ...
una dieta que propone regresar a los orígenes y alimentarse como lo hacían nuest ...
¿ beber agua adelgaza ?
¿ cuántos litros debo tomar al día ?
¿ con sodio o sin sodio ? ...
octubre es el mes de concientización del cáncer del seno méxico es una tierra de mujeres hermosas , ¿ cuál es tu favorita ?
descubre la belleza del otoño en estados unidos visitando alguno de ...
latinas que son orgullo y ejemplo a seguir en diferentes ámbitos : ac ...
from nowhere a woman gave her him a 200 / - coin apparently as alms to a ’ poor person .
on the slopes of udzungwa mountains , some 400 km south-west of dar es salaam in the heart of the kilombero valley lies a 10,000 hectare sugarcane plantation .
the kilombero valley is the cradle of sugarcane farming in the united republic of tanzania and the home of tanzania ’ s largest sugarcane estate – kilombero .
who would have thought that a less fortunate woman who sells doughnuts in the streets of mbagala , kijichi would one day own her own bajaj in the city of dar es salaam ?
current eac leadership crisis is this danger to the organization 's survival ?
technically , both were members of the authority , but operationally mwalimu would not sit at a table with iddi amin ( ’ simtaki muuaji huyu ’ ) .
for residents of matongo , nyangoto , kerende , kewanja and nyakunguru villages in tarime district , august is a dry month as evidenced by the blue skies that are not tainted by a white cloud even as early as ten o ’ clock in the morning .
mount kilimanjaro got its name from the swahili words kilima njaro meaning & ldquo ; shining mountain & rdquo ; , as revealed on its famous ice cap at the top .
the chinese characters boldly painted on a supermarket poster in tanzania ’ s commercial capital dar es salaam say a lot about the growing influence of china on this east african nation .
nit all out in educating local experts but challenges abound tycoons ’ children are not like those of common people .
for while some of the ordinary tanzanians ’ children are labouring in sisal fields or stealing their parents ’ fowls , the children of tycoons are employed in different sectors , including the central government .
a staggering youth entered a commutter bus recently in dar es salaam , his breath carrying the reek of alcohol .
ask zainab omar of misozwe village in muheza district why she takes part in conserving the village forests of mlinga , manga and kwizee and she will quickly give you several reasons – to get firewood , to sustain flows of water in streams around the village and to keep the rainy seasons stable .
she was in a big hurry and at times could run whenever she could do it .
shivji 's two-state solution : that 's the disease which it purports to cure the above statement was uttered by one retired female officer of the ministry of education and vocational training ( moevt ) in 2012 .
her name is mrs urassa aka mama meta .
she mentioned those words when we met at professor isaria kimambo ’ s residence in makongo juu , kinondoni district .
for robi chacha ( not her name ) , a mother of four who lives in matongo village of tarime district in mara region , tuesday and fridays are the best days of the week for the family especially between july and october .
rehema mbaruku ( 45 ) is one of the happiest women in foroforo village located 48 kilometres from korogwe district headquarters in tanga region .
thousands of youths enter the job market every year .
and of these , very few are likely to get employment .
so where do the rest go ?
self-employment is said to be an alternative to unemployment as it offers a steady income .
steve biko , mizengo pinda and problematics of an ' insurrectionist democracy ' prime minister mizengo pinda has lately come up for a pillorying following his comments in the august chamber of parliament that the state was fatigued with applying the flywhisk to trouble-prone gatherings of the leading opposition party , issuing a clarion call : the time for beating is now .
silt and water hyacinth are becoming a threat to mabayani dam , the main source of water for tanga city residents and those in the peripherals .
the two enemies are caused by human activities in the amani nature reserve ( anr ) located in the east usambara mountains .
the new farming venture has given hope to small-scale farmers living on the slopes of the north pare mountains in kilimanjaro region ’ s same district .
an old village man went to buy a blanket .
he had enough money to buy a good blanket but he planned to buy a cheap one so he could save a little money for booze .
it ’ s back to the future in lauderdale-by-the-sea sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt new spa services tailored to pamper those in cancer ’ s grasp wed oct 2 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt delray surgeon regrows man ’ s severed finger sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt teeth on nightstand help put bite on battery suspect in keys sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt creatures great and small gather for blessing of the animals at boynton church sun oct 6 , 2013 10 : 10 pm edt lights go out on ravens , again sun oct 6 , 2013 8 : 10 pm edt one person killed in lauderhill fire sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt pedestrian hit , killed in margate sun oct 6 , 2013 6 : 10 pm edt man shot in robbery attempt sun oct 6 , 2013 2 : 10 pm edt mainly dry sunday sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt karen dissipates to remnant low sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt t. willard fair was ’ the muhammad ali of black dade county ’ sun oct 6 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt shark bites boy in gulf of mexico off panhandle mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 10 am edt keys bar giving away money plastered on its walls sat sep 28 , 2013 12 : 10 pm edt north end beach cleanup tuesday sun oct 6 , 2013 12 : 10 am edt ’ long wait ’ for anorexia treatment mon oct 7 , 2013 04 : 10 am edt westons millennium plaza could fall to foreclosure fri oct 4 , 2013 4 : 10 pm edt the daughter of a financial advisor , emily bach once wanted to fall far from the tree .
" i thought i was going to go to law school , but my dad talked me out of it , " she says , laughing .
" we let the professionals do the money management , " she says .
" i do distinguish myself as a portfolio manager , not as a wealth manager , " says rosenau .
" people come to me to manage money for them . "
" you have to understand the reasons for the rally and work through the noise -- from the fed , from the pundits on cnbc , and so on , " she says .
" a healthy correction is inevitable , but i am optimistic for the longer-term growth of the equity markets . "
" it was suggested to me that i should try to start my own practice in the private bank , " she says .
" i didn 't have any clients " -- meaning no dedicated clients for whom she was the lead advisor -- " so that made me nervous . "
rdc : & bdquo ; près de 90 & percnt des combattants du m23 sont des militaires rwandais « affirme un déserteur .
rdc : & bdquo ; près de 90 & percnt des combattants du m23 sont des militaires & bdquo ; pas loin de quatre vingt-dix pour cent ( 90 & percnt ) des combattants de la rébellion m23 qui se bat à l ’ est de la république démocratique du congo ( rdc ) , sont des militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise « , a affirmé à la bbc un des quatre rwandais recrutés et forcés de rejoindre les rangs des rebelles du m23 .
les ces quatre individus ont déclaré avoir été recrutés de force au rwanda par prêter main forte aux rebelles du m23 qui sévissent à l ’ est de la rdc depuis des mois.après s ’ être échappés , ils ont demandél ’ asile en ouganda , d ’ où ils ont livré leur témoignage à la bbcce mardi le 31 juillet .
un des déserteurs affirme que le mouvement m23 est constitué à 90 & percnt de militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise .
un autre transfuge quisuivaitdes études de médecine au rwanda lors de son recrutement forcé pour le compte du m23 , a indiqué à la bbc , qu ’ il a soigné plus de 300 combattants du m23 blessés au les témoignages de ces déserteurs corroborent le contenu du rapport de humanrights watch ( hrw ) publié le 22juillet dernier.dans ce rapport d ’ autres combattants , recrutés de force au rwanda et qui ont réussi à s ’ échapper , ont combattre de l ’ autre coté de la frontière rwandaise.dans ce rapport , ces combattants ont également rapporté que la rébellion m23 est constituée en grande partie de militaires de l ’ armée rwandaise et de combattants recrutés de force au ce n ’ est pas la première fois que des recrues rwandaises pour le compte du m23 demandent asile en ouganda .
le 20 juin dernier , 16 étudiants rwandais ( 14 hommes et deux femmes ) y avaient encore demandé l ’ asile en déclarant être victimes du harcèlement des autorités de leur pays pour avoir refusé de se joindre auxrebelles du m23.deux de ces étudiants en fuite ont affirmé qu ’ ils avaient refusé de participer au programme parce que leurs amis qui y sont allés le rwanda continue de nier son soutien au m23 malgré l ’ accumulation des le porte parole de l ’ armée rwandaise , joseph nzabamwita , a déclaré à la bbc the notice is in compliance with the demands of the international extractive industry transparency initiative ( eiti ) to which the country is now a member .
the call comes at a most relevant time , as the scheduled october bidding for some seven deep offshore gas blocks and one onshore block for oil and gas exploration is set to commence .
now that extraction of the ’ black gold ’ is said to be more than probable and drilling for gas already underway , the threat of secret documents and the implication of corruption so posed is much more profound .
topics in the newspresident barack obamakarlos dansbycam newtonlarry fitzgeraldnfldaryl washingtonu.s.patrick petersonuniversity of phoenix stadiummichael floyd browse categoriesbrandscultureevents and awardshealth and wellnesslegislation and actsnatural and physical sciencesorganizationspeopleplaces , geographyreligion and beliefs was carracao not the same individual who advised the previous administration not to make a big fuss over her hrh the princess royal visit ?
the pirate of bgtw – which has been the instigator of the present conflict which the spanish govt is using for its political advantage and evidently is a symbiotic relationship ....
hmgog restates it express goodwill and disposition to enter “ constructive and collaborative dialogue ” with spain in the immediate future on trilateral or “ ad hoc ” terms .
sir mark potter was called to the bar in 1963 and was appointed queens counsel in 1981 ...
new jobless numbers are a bit of a mixed bag for president obama and his re-election bid .
by catherine reagor and ronald j. hansen , the republic | azcentral. com © 2012 usa today , a division of gannett co .
inc .
