bbc news -pipe- arts -pipe- kerouac scroll fetches $ 2.4m low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : entertainment : arts front page world uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment showbiz music film arts tv and radio new media reviews talking point in depth audiovideo the bbc 's graham satchell " kerouac himself would probably have been bemused by the record auction " real 56k wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 05:31 gmt 06:31 uk kerouac scroll fetches $ 2.4m james irsay examines his new purchase the scroll on which jack kerouac wrote his seminal beat novel on the road has been auctioned for a record $ 2.43m -lrb- £ 1.7m -rrb- , nearly $ 1m more than the expected price .
the 36m -lrb- 120-foot -rrb- scroll was bought by james irsay , the owner of the indianapolis colts football team .
i look on it as a stewardship .
i do n't believe you own anything .
in this world , it 's dust to dust james irsay , manuscript buyer the final price - $ 2.2m -lrb- £ 1.5m -rrb- plus a buyer 's premium of $ 226,000 -lrb- £ 158,666 -rrb- - breaks the previous record paid for a literary work , $ 1.98m -lrb- £ 1.4m -rrb- for a 1920 copy of franz kafka 's the trial .
the manuscript of the cult classic was being sold at christie 's by the brother of kerouac 's third wife to pay inheritance taxes .
mr irsay is considering taking the manuscript on a road trip mirroring the one described in the novel .
" i look on it as a stewardship .
i do n't believe you own anything .
in this world , it 's dust to dust , " he said .
the manuscript is pasted together in sections with the seams later reinforced with tape .
road trip in the run up to the auction , the manuscript had been on show at cities across the us , including san francisco , considered to be the spiritual home of mr kerouac and the beat poets .
mr kerouac himself told allen ginsberg that the unravelled manuscript " looks like a road " .
the sale comes 50 years after the book was completed , on 22 april 1951 .
the scroll is 120 foot long and written without paragraphs on the road is the poignant story of friendship and four trips across america , and - legend has it - was written in a spontaneous burst of energy which mr kerouac believed was a new form of writing .
christie 's manuscript expert chris coover said : " it 's kerouac 's most important book , the book that most people who read any kerouac read .
" it 's his first book in the breakthrough new style , spontaneous prose , which he invented with his scroll , and it 's the original form of what has become one of the most influential books of the latter part of the 20th century . "
historian douglas brinkley says the manuscript is important partly because it uses the real names of mr kerouac 's travelling companions , not the pseudonyms used in the published book .
' free-spirited ' the book is regarded as one of the key texts of the beat generation , and has sold nearly 3.5 million copies in the united states alone and continues to sell more than 100,000 copies a year .
jack kerouac wrote on the road in 1951 writer and critic herbert gold , who went to college with mr kerouac , said he was not an innovator .
" he thought he was an innovator , but there were writers , going back to mark twain and in contemporary times , william saroyan , who dealt in the american language in a free-spirited way . "
author truman capote famously dismissed on the road as " typing , not writing " .
it took mr kerouac six years to find a publisher for his manuscript but now the scroll is regarded as an important piece of american literary history .
search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide see also : 16 may 01 -pipe- arts kerouac scroll goes on the road 17 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment lawrence rarity sells for £ 18,000 15 nov 00 -pipe- entertainment potter first edition up for grabs 17 aug 98 -pipe- edinburgh festival ken kesey 's return trip 08 nov 99 -pipe- americas killer stalks us hobos internet links : beat generation literary kicks beat news christie 's the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top arts stories now : egypt reclaims stolen antiquities record numbers at da vinci exhibition wartime bomb found at bolshoi poetry prize shortlist unveiled sculpture of queen for jubilee princeton offers sculpture return turners return home blood sculpture ' melted ' links to more arts stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more arts stories in this section egypt reclaims stolen antiquities record numbers at da vinci exhibition wartime bomb found at bolshoi poetry prize shortlist unveiled sculpture of queen for jubilee princeton offers sculpture return turners return home blood sculpture ' melted ' fake harry potter novel hits china kandinsky painting row settled artist 's work saved for nation singer catches fire at royal opera chirac wins dumas ashes wrangle bell tolls for ' hunchback ' title star pair to tread london boards berkoff deported from us ' anti-semitic ' book sells out strike hits exhibition launch ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- arts -pipe- kerouac scroll fetches $ 2.4m front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- entertainment contents : showbiz -pipe- music -pipe- film -pipe- arts -pipe- tv and radio -pipe- new media -pipe- reviews -pipe- bbc news online : entertainment : arts wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 05:31 gmt 06:31 uk kerouac scroll fetches $ 2.4m the scroll on which jack kerouac wrote his seminal beat novel on the road has been auctioned for a record $ 2.43m -lrb- £ 1.7m -rrb- , nearly $ 1m more than the expected price .
the 36m -lrb- 120-foot -rrb- scroll was bought by james irsay , the owner of the indianapolis colts football team .
i look on it as a stewardship .
i do n't believe you own anything .
in this world , it 's dust to dust james irsay , manuscript buyer the final price - $ 2.2m -lrb- £ 1.5m -rrb- plus a buyer 's premium of $ 226,000 -lrb- £ 158,666 -rrb- - breaks the previous record paid for a literary work , $ 1.98m -lrb- £ 1.4m -rrb- for a 1920 copy of franz kafka 's the trial .
the manuscript of the cult classic was being sold at christie 's by the brother of kerouac 's third wife to pay inheritance taxes .
mr irsay is considering taking the manuscript on a road trip mirroring the one described in the novel .
" i look on it as a stewardship .
i do n't believe you own anything .
in this world , it 's dust to dust , " he said .
the manuscript is pasted together in sections with the seams later reinforced with tape .
road trip in the run up to the auction , the manuscript had been on show at cities across the us , including san francisco , considered to be the spiritual home of mr kerouac and the beat poets .
mr kerouac himself told allen ginsberg that the unravelled manuscript " looks like a road " .
the sale comes 50 years after the book was completed , on 22 april 1951 .
on the road is the poignant story of friendship and four trips across america , and - legend has it - was written in a spontaneous burst of energy which mr kerouac believed was a new form of writing .
christie 's manuscript expert chris coover said : " it 's kerouac 's most important book , the book that most people who read any kerouac read .
" it 's his first book in the breakthrough new style , spontaneous prose , which he invented with his scroll , and it 's the original form of what has become one of the most influential books of the latter part of the 20th century . "
historian douglas brinkley says the manuscript is important partly because it uses the real names of mr kerouac 's travelling companions , not the pseudonyms used in the published book .
' free-spirited ' the book is regarded as one of the key texts of the beat generation , and has sold nearly 3.5 million copies in the united states alone and continues to sell more than 100,000 copies a year .
writer and critic herbert gold , who went to college with mr kerouac , said he was not an innovator .
" he thought he was an innovator , but there were writers , going back to mark twain and in contemporary times , william saroyan , who dealt in the american language in a free-spirited way . "
author truman capote famously dismissed on the road as " typing , not writing " .
it took mr kerouac six years to find a publisher for his manuscript but now the scroll is regarded as an important piece of american literary history .
related to this story : kerouac scroll goes on the road -lrb- 16 may 01 -pipe- arts -rrb- lawrence rarity sells for £ 18,000 -lrb- 17 feb 01 -pipe- entertainment -rrb- potter first edition up for grabs -lrb- 15 nov 00 -pipe- entertainment -rrb- ken kesey 's return trip -lrb- 17 aug 98 -pipe- edinburgh festival -rrb- killer stalks us hobos -lrb- 08 nov 99 -pipe- americas -rrb- internet links : beat generation -pipe- literary kicks -pipe- beat news -pipe- christie 's -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- entertainment contents : showbiz -pipe- music -pipe- film -pipe- arts -pipe- tv and radio -pipe- new media -pipe- reviews -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- americas -pipe- young poor march in argentina low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : world : americas front page world africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia - from our own correspondent - letter from america uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 05:50 gmt 06:50 uk young poor march in argentina the child marchers have spent two weeks on the road some 400 of argentina 's youngsters have arrived in the capital , buenos aires , at the end of a 2,000-kilometre march to highlight child poverty .
aged between two and 18 , the children from the northern city of la quiaca near the bolivian border are demanding food and jobs for their parents .
de la rua has asked for patience from his people they were welcomed by other children and some union leaders as they reached the main square of the capital .
people on the streets waved flags and beat drums as the march reached its destination .
the march has been organised by children 's charities who are campaigning for government measures to prevent minors from going onto the streets or being sent to work .
the government estimates that more than half the children in argentina live beneath the poverty line and the figure has steadily increased in recent years .
popular protests in recent weeks , thousands of jobless people have blocked roads in buenos aires province and demanded unemployment benefits .
every unemployed means more kids on the streets argentina is latin america 's third-largest economy , but it has not seen any growth in the last 34 months , leading to many lost jobs and social conflict .
as one of the organisers of the children 's march put it , whenever a parent loses their job , a child might find itself living on the streets .
the government has begun implementing measures to improve the situation and the president , fernando de la rua , has asked the country to be patient search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide see also : 04 mar 01 -pipe- americas political turmoil in argentina 19 dec 00 -pipe- americas imf bails out argentina 24 nov 00 -pipe- americas argentina paralysed 23 nov 00 -pipe- business argentina 's economic tightrope 17 mar 01 -pipe- media reports little sympathy for argentine president 20 mar 01 -pipe- americas argentina 's economy minister quits internet links : economy ministry government of argentina the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top americas stories now : bush vows action after scandals ' white supremacists ' on trial in boston worldcom chiefs refuse to testify canada blazes send smoke south pentagon team to examine bomb error hundreds mourn la airport victims new hope for aids vaccine texas pleads for more flood aid links to more americas stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more americas stories in this section bush vows action after scandals ' white supremacists ' on trial in boston worldcom chiefs refuse to testify canada blazes send smoke south pentagon team to examine bomb error hundreds mourn la airport victims new hope for aids vaccine texas pleads for more flood aid search for ' spy ' pilots in china us plans mass smallpox vaccination carter starts venezuela talks spielberg refused star wars trial huge bomb deactivated in colombia cash boost for caribbean aids fight merck ' exaggerated ' revenue in accounts enron board ' ignored financial warnings ' argentina ' will not force savings swap ' net body accused of bullying tactics awesome hewitt wins wimbledon more joy for williams double act inkster claims open title ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- americas -pipe- young poor march in argentina front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- bbc news online : world : americas wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 05:50 gmt 06:50 uk young poor march in argentina some 400 of argentina 's youngsters have arrived in the capital , buenos aires , at the end of a 2,000-kilometre march to highlight child poverty .
aged between two and 18 , the children from the northern city of la quiaca near the bolivian border are demanding food and jobs for their parents .
they were welcomed by other children and some union leaders as they reached the main square of the capital .
people on the streets waved flags and beat drums as the march reached its destination .
the march has been organised by children 's charities who are campaigning for government measures to prevent minors from going onto the streets or being sent to work .
the government estimates that more than half the children in argentina live beneath the poverty line and the figure has steadily increased in recent years .
popular protests in recent weeks , thousands of jobless people have blocked roads in buenos aires province and demanded unemployment benefits .
argentina is latin america 's third-largest economy , but it has not seen any growth in the last 34 months , leading to many lost jobs and social conflict .
as one of the organisers of the children 's march put it , whenever a parent loses their job , a child might find itself living on the streets .
the government has begun implementing measures to improve the situation and the president , fernando de la rua , has asked the country to be patient related to this story : political turmoil in argentina -lrb- 04 mar 01 -pipe- americas -rrb- imf bails out argentina -lrb- 19 dec 00 -pipe- americas -rrb- argentina paralysed -lrb- 24 nov 00 -pipe- americas -rrb- argentina 's economic tightrope -lrb- 23 nov 00 -pipe- business -rrb- little sympathy for argentine president -lrb- 17 mar 01 -pipe- media reports -rrb- argentina 's economy minister quits -lrb- 20 mar 01 -pipe- americas -rrb- internet links : economy ministry -pipe- government of argentina -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- europe -pipe- profile : chris patten front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- bbc news online : world : europe wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 07:14 gmt 08:14 uk profile : chris patten by foreign affairs analyst louisa brooke chris patten - reviled by the chinese authorities during his years as governor of hong kong - is visiting beijing as european union external affairs commissioner .
mr patten once described his time as the former colony 's last governor as the experience that shaped him for the rest of his life .
he was picked for the job in 1992 by the then uk prime minister , john major , to oversee the return of the colony to china in 1997 .
but he soon ruffled chinese feathers when he announced proposals for the democratic reform of hong kong 's institutions a few months into his tenure .
war of words beijing was outraged that it had not been consulted and threatened to tear up business contracts and overturn the reforms when it took control of the colony .
the crisis in relations caused the hong kong stock market to crash in december 1992 .
reforms were eventually introduced 18 months later after numerous rounds of negotiations .
his tough stand won him many admirers outside beijing .
but relations between mr patten and the chinese authorities remained strained .
chinese officials and media came up with a variety of insults including , most infamously , " fatty pang " .
nevertheless , the hand-over of hong kong to china in june 1997 was largely seen as a great success , and few will forget the sight of mr patten crying as the union flag was taken down .
fast-track chris patten entered politics early .
he joined the uk 's conservative party research office after graduating from oxford university .
he was elected mp for bath in 1979 , and spent most of the 1980s serving in prime minister margaret thatcher 's governments .
mr patten was appointed parliamentary under-secretary for northern ireland in 1983 , before moving to the department of education .
he then became the overseas development minister before gaining a cabinet seat in 1989 as environment secretary .
he was appointed chairman of the conservative party in 1990 .
mr patten is credited with securing the conservatives ' election victory in the 1992 general election but lost his own bath seat .
as a reward for his role on the election , mr major offered him the hong kong governorship .
on his return to the uk , he was appointed by the new labour prime minister tony blair to head the independent commission on policing in northern ireland .
the report recommended a radical overhaul of the service , and came under considerable fire from ulster unionists who objected to proposals for a name change , a new badge , a new oath of allegiance and a new flag .
eu role since september 1999 mr patten has served as a member of the european commission , responsible for foreign affairs and external relations .
he aroused controversy last year when it was suggested in the press that he found the job boring .
he has long been critical of what he considers the endemic waste and fraud of the european union 's foreign aid programmes and the slowness of brussels bureaucracy .
as commissioner for external relations he works closely with javier solana , head of eu foreign policy , and has been closely involved in recent attempts to define and refine what he calls " a common foreign and security policy " , as well as working alongside nato .
related to this story : hong kong government shake-up -lrb- 15 feb 01 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- chris patten : reflections on hong kong -lrb- 30 jun 98 -pipe- hong kong handover anniversary -rrb- patten rules out comeback -lrb- 03 dec 00 -pipe- uk politics -rrb- internet links : hong kong government -pipe- european commission -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- europe -pipe- profile : chris patten low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : world : europe front page world africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia - from our own correspondent - letter from america uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 07:14 gmt 08:14 uk profile : chris patten mr patten oversaw hong kong 's hand-over by foreign affairs analyst louisa brooke chris patten - reviled by the chinese authorities during his years as governor of hong kong - is visiting beijing as european union external affairs commissioner .
mr patten once described his time as the former colony 's last governor as the experience that shaped him for the rest of his life .
he was picked for the job in 1992 by the then uk prime minister , john major , to oversee the return of the colony to china in 1997 .
but he soon ruffled chinese feathers when he announced proposals for the democratic reform of hong kong 's institutions a few months into his tenure .
war of words beijing was outraged that it had not been consulted and threatened to tear up business contracts and overturn the reforms when it took control of the colony .
the crisis in relations caused the hong kong stock market to crash in december 1992 .
reforms were eventually introduced 18 months later after numerous rounds of negotiations .
his tough stand won him many admirers outside beijing .
but relations between mr patten and the chinese authorities remained strained .
chinese officials and media came up with a variety of insults including , most infamously , " fatty pang " .
nevertheless , the hand-over of hong kong to china in june 1997 was largely seen as a great success , and few will forget the sight of mr patten crying as the union flag was taken down .
fast-track chris patten entered politics early .
he joined the uk 's conservative party research office after graduating from oxford university .
he was elected mp for bath in 1979 , and spent most of the 1980s serving in prime minister margaret thatcher 's governments .
uk prime minister tony blair found a role for chris patten mr patten was appointed parliamentary under-secretary for northern ireland in 1983 , before moving to the department of education .
he then became the overseas development minister before gaining a cabinet seat in 1989 as environment secretary .
he was appointed chairman of the conservative party in 1990 .
mr patten is credited with securing the conservatives ' election victory in the 1992 general election but lost his own bath seat .
as a reward for his role on the election , mr major offered him the hong kong governorship .
on his return to the uk , he was appointed by the new labour prime minister tony blair to head the independent commission on policing in northern ireland .
the report recommended a radical overhaul of the service , and came under considerable fire from ulster unionists who objected to proposals for a name change , a new badge , a new oath of allegiance and a new flag .
eu role since september 1999 mr patten has served as a member of the european commission , responsible for foreign affairs and external relations .
he aroused controversy last year when it was suggested in the press that he found the job boring .
he has long been critical of what he considers the endemic waste and fraud of the european union 's foreign aid programmes and the slowness of brussels bureaucracy .
as commissioner for external relations he works closely with javier solana , head of eu foreign policy , and has been closely involved in recent attempts to define and refine what he calls " a common foreign and security policy " , as well as working alongside nato .
search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide see also : 15 feb 01 -pipe- asia-pacific hong kong government shake-up 30 jun 98 -pipe- hong kong handover anniversary chris patten : reflections on hong kong 03 dec 00 -pipe- uk politics patten rules out comeback internet links : hong kong government european commission the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top europe stories now : mass resignations rock turkey crash pilots given conflicting orders serbia jails first war criminal new hope for aids vaccine ukraine mine death toll rises russian anti-jewish sign explodes sicilians dish up anti-mafia pasta finland and sweden plan ' eurocity ' links to more europe stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more europe stories in this section mass resignations rock turkey crash pilots given conflicting orders serbia jails first war criminal new hope for aids vaccine ukraine mine death toll rises russian anti-jewish sign explodes sicilians dish up anti-mafia pasta finland and sweden plan ' eurocity ' bosnia massacre suspect held croat leader consults over new pm babcock rescue talks fail french town bans swimwear on streets analysis : beginning of end for ecevit turkey : should elections be held ?
racewatch : tour stage two grief amid the wreckage in pictures : sad journey for families what might have gone wrong ?
swiss angst over air crash blame q & a : mid-air crash ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- talking point -pipe- m & s : can it ever recover ? low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : talking point front page world uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point forum in depth audiovideo wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 07:32 gmt 08:32 uk m & s : can it ever recover ?
troubled british retailer marks & spencer is to abandon its european , american and far east operations .
the retrenchment to the uk , which will affect thousands of jobs , is the latest plan in efforts to halt a relentless slide in sales and profits .
uk stores and product ranges will be revamped .
m & s has already tried to spruce up its image by hiring a top clothes designer and launching ambitious advertising campaigns .
but the results are yet to be seen .
new chairman luc vandevelde has given himself a year to turn the m & s ship around .
can he do it ?
will marks & spencer ever return to its glory days at the top of the retailing pecking order ?
or has the shop simply lost the plot for good ?
this debate is now closed .
read a selection of your comments below .
your reaction it was a big blow to m & s shoppers when it was decided to close their stores in canada amanda r. sinclair , canada it was a big blow to m & s shoppers when it was decided to close their stores in canada .
the prices were a little bit more than say walmart but the quality was always there .
but the biggest blow was no longer being able to buy m & s foods , not a large selection but enough to keep us happy .
we now have to wait until we visit the uk -lrb- providing the company is still in business -rrb- to enjoy their goodies .
as for closing their paris store i think the management must be way off base to do such a thing .
let us all hope that the new ceo will turn the company around so that shoppers will still be able to say i bought some things at marks today .
r. sinclair , canada everything that i am wearing at the moment , bar my shoes , is m & s. i have always bought underwear from them and they have traditionally been my automatic port of call for suits , ties , shirts etc for work .
until recently that is .
m & s nowadays appear to be under the mistaken impression that it is price that has driven people away and has reduced prices by reducing the quality .
the shirt i have on now has washed poorly and is like a limp rag compared to some of my others .
i shall be looking elsewhere for its replacement if m & s do not go back to their old uk suppliers and give value for money rather than simply low prices .
if i want to wear cheap tat then i can get it for less at plenty of other places .
james , england strategically m & s have become stuck in the middle .
certainly their clothing market is neither appealing to the younger fashion market to whom the brand is synonymous with adult conservative clothing or the older market who will have noticed that the quality of garments has been compromised as m & s has tried to produce more ' stylish ' clothing .
they really need to decide which way to go , but to try and please to distinctly different markets simultaneously will be commercial suicide .
rory mcknight , uk the negative vibes from your letter writers is sad to see .
the british public has turned into a load of moaners .
m & s has through the years offered real value for money .
while you could say they are expensive the quality has always been good .
i have bought numerous suits from them , they offer the best choice of mix and match sizes anywhere .
the food halls always offer that special something you can not find in other supermarkets .
the staff are always courteous and helpful , and before you may think i work for them , i do n't .
i just wanted to send a positive message for a change .
ian , uk the staff are friendly claire powell , belgium i can only echo the thoughts of my fellow ex-pats here .
the brussels m & s does very well -lrb- it seems to me , i ca n't speak about the other three branches in belgium -rrb- in the food section .
we 're always there buying something so perhaps they should concentrate on that area .
the staff are friendly and they 've left out a suggestion book for us to write in which has become a petition in all but name .
i signed it on saturday and noticed remarks in french and dutch so the locals also want it to remain open .
a friend tells me that she joined a long queue to sign it today .
i just hope the management listens .
i note that even lionel jospin takes great exception to the paris one closing down .
claire , brussels , belgium claire powell , belgium i admire m & s as an institution and am sorry it has fallen on hard times .
but as an american and long time brooks brothers shopper , i am delighted that m & s is selling off brooks brothers .
since buying this icon of traditional american dress , m & s has reinvented it as a fashion conscious clothier .
but i do n't want fashion .
i want a place where i can buy the stodgy old 3 button sack suits that i have worn for years .
i wish m & s well and hope that it will soon regain its reputation for quality that has served it so well .
mason alexander , usa m & s 's problem is that they infuriate their customers by continually changing the store layout which results in people wandering around lost , confused and highly irritated , when all they wanted to do was find the yoghurt stand .
futhermore , they bring out a product -lrb- either clothes or food -rrb- , wait for it to become extremely popular and then discontinue it with sadistic glee .
lawrence , england i am the nightmare of retailers .
i am a floating buyer .
i buy from a large variety of outlets , including the web , catalogues and high street stores .
i have no prejudice about m & s and would have no hesitation buying from them if i like something , which does happen !
pascal jacquemain , uk -lrb- french -rrb- ever since i left the uk , the one thing that i still get sent over is m & s underwear .
m & s can be comforted that even as their uk customers abandon them in droves , they still have some loyal ones here in canada who wear their merchandise close to their hearts !
max ben arye , canada if only it had been an april fool 's joke - but the only fools are the top managers .
gone are the times when management 's only concern was for its shareholders - now we also have to think of customers and personnel , many of whom have been loyal to the brand for years .
marks and spencer 's still has many things going for it - mainly the excellent quality and design of its men 's and children 's clothes -lrb- though a little expensive -rrb- - and now even women 's clothes are starting to move away from the " middle-class , middle-aged " look with the arrival of modern suits .
the task ahead will be difficult .
as a loyal customer of m & s , i hope that they will recover and eventually make it back to the continent .
once again it 's the personnel that are paying the price for this mismanagement and it will be a sad day in france when the stores close .
frances price , france others will be happy to take up the niche for sensible pullovers and tweed partchev , germany they 're mad .
i was hoping they would open up more shops in germany , so that i would not have to go as far as cologne to buy clothes - now they expect me to go to london instead .
i feel that whatever their new bosses do must be wrong .
others will be happy to take up the niche for sensible pullovers and tweed on the continent , and m & s can go on scrapping shops in britain , once they have done away with those in europe .
partchev , germany m & s were used in an open university course as a model for a forward looking organisation that set high standards , spread technology and achieved a level of quality envied in the clothing trade .
perhaps the superior attitude also made them lose sight of their objectives - to provide value for money product , thereby making a profit .
unfortunately the product is now dull and overpriced .
the service is terrible and most staff seem to resent your presence .
i now pass through m & s on the way to other shops .
if i see " reduced " tags i may stop , but usually the style forces me to move on .
it 's a pity but all dinosaurs must eventually die or evolve .
m & s rip , you waited too long .
david wilson , uk i love their wool cardigans in basic grey -lrb- like the ones we used to wear as school uniform -rrb- .
on the food side , if their chocolate fudge cake -lrb- the kind in the opaque ridged case -rrb- went out of production , i would shoot myself .
matt , uk as an expat on a temporary posting to france i am obviously saddened by the news that m & s are closing their non-uk stores .
i grew up with the m & s habit , and the quality underwear and food are -lrb- or rather were -rrb- one of life 's certainties .
all i can say is that we will learn to live without m & s - and that will apply when we return to the uk as well !
david proctor , france their out-sourcing policy has led to poor quality and a loss of confidence in their products rob blaney , uk i recently bought a shirt from m & s for £ 25.00 and found that the seam was faulty .
i took it back to the hanley store and , as it was made in mauritius , i lost confidence in their foreign out-sourcing of production and i wanted a shirt made in the uk .
despite searching the whole of the men 's department , the staff could find no shirt made in the uk .
m & s used to be a symbol of quality , but their out-sourcing policy has led to poor quality and a loss of confidence in their products .
rob blaney , uk as an ex-pat , when i do get to england one of the experiences i 've always looked forward to is a visit to marks and spencer .
the last couple of years have been a real disappointment .
they seem to have lost their way in an effort to get more customers and , i think , have ended up sacrificing quality and style -lrb- however boring it was , it was always dependable -rrb- .
it 's a shame because i used to put it on my " must visit " list for friends going to the uk but i now feel their time and money would be better spent elsewhere .
i 'll still stop by on my trips though - the deluxe bread and butter pudding is something i dream about !
susan beck , usa as an ex uk manager , i am desperately sad to see the latest developments in the painful three year demise of m & s. richard greenbury -lrb- i ca n't bring myself to include the sir -rrb- has a lot to answer for .
his total mismanagement of the company , coupled with a weak board of directors caused irreparable damage .
exacerbating the situation was his arrogance with the british media , feeding the journalistic frenzy of negative articles .
i sincerely hope that chairman vandevelde can overcome this shameful legacy , both for the customers and the thousands of dedicated , hardworking members of staff .
mrs. s. jones , usa the media also plays its part by being negative sanjiv r , uk m & s lost customer focus in the past .
providing they can regain this , they should be ok .
the media also plays its part by being negative .
sanjiv r , uk m & s have really lost the plot and what was their strongest selling point .
they 've never been trendy or fashionable .
they are too large to compete with the select brands and too expensive to compete in the mass market and yet try to do both .
m & s used to be the place where you went for high-quality basic clothing items ; the sort of thing you wore year after year .
if you needed a basic black work suit , a smart polo neck or good underwear then m & s was the place to go .
now you can only buy things like that when they happen to be in fashion .
in my opinion they should go back to their core strengths and return to high quality , well priced , well designed , stylish classic items .
anna , uk as a parisian i will miss m & s greatly .
i shop in their rue de rivoli food hall at least once a week to buy wonderful things like english ' bangers ' , smoked bacon , and oh , the bread .
their range of pre-packed meals has saved many a day .
my baby son loves his visits where the staff always make him feel welcome .
i would have bought a coat there this winter if i could have found one that did not look as though i was wearing a tent , and £ 200 at that .
i hope they sort themselves out and come back soon .
the cost of eurostar will have be added to my food bill .
john , france the problem with m & s is that they no longer do what they are good at - providing classic , high quality fashions at a reasonable price .
h grotius , uk as long as m & s is committed to a policy of arrogance , people will not buy from m & s. in my opinion they are another rip .
bodipala wijeyesinghe , uk if they sack anyone they should start with the accountants stephen j whitworth , philippines i have shopped at m & s regularly twice a year at least during visits back to the uk , and since they have changed to getting the majority of their clothing from outside the uk the quality of their clothing has gone down .
two years ago the headlines were " m & s only make a billion pounds profit " , or similar .
is n't the point that vast profit margins -lrb- that seem to be required by uk companies -rrb- on clothes are going down .
the accountants persuaded the company to try and get the same profit margins out of clothes .
impossible nowadays , the margins on clothing are coming down everywhere and there are less and less developing countries keen to get in on this business .
the successes of m & s have been on food , and recently in home goods .
applying the same quality control procedures to other product areas is the strength of m & s. i shop there -lrb- or did -rrb- to get good quality everyday clothes that last a long time and were invariably always made in the uk .
i would be happy to buy many other products on the same basis .
the m & s brand is not slick but it was always reliable .
if they sack anyone they should start with the accountants or marketing or management consultants that came up with such a strategy .
m & s does not stand for anything now in the uk except the quest for high profit .
stephen j whitworth , philippines m & s is a multi-hundred million pound profit making business and is what might be called , if your feeling only slightly generous , a decent employer and a fair retailer , when you consider the proportion of people in this country on the payroll and the quality of goods found within .
what is however more important given that the business makes money and employs a good deal of people who in turn pay good organised taxes is what the hell is going on ?
the company are turning their backs on a direct catalogue market when competitors are throwing more money at it , why could this be ?
the cynics among us , of which i am one , would claim that with the incentive deals offered to the " new team " who incidentally are n't so new and have certainly been there long enough to shoulder some blame , are on dividend linked salaries and what better way to move the share price than to begin their cowardice dismantling of a great profit making business and a national institution than to make 5,000 people out of a job and ask us all to go back in time to the penny bazaars !
i know for a fact that that their new catalogue for summer which is now going to be destroyed cost over £ 1 million pound to produce !
who is accountable for that then we should ask , while 700 - 1000 people join the unemployed in the uk and a further 4,000 in mainland europe all go without work .
something is clearly not right about this and it smacks of personal greed , does n't anyone else care !
paul o , england ok , you have got to turn the company around in a year - so let 's take a sledgehammer to the areas that are really doing well .
you are making your biggest mistake yet , m & s. having lived in paris for two years , i remember how , every time i visited boulevard haussman m & s , it was filled with customers throughout .
and half of english speaking switzerland travel to the strasbourg m & s on a regular basis !
drop the sledgehammer , analyse france and the rest carefully , and do n't throw away the profit earning stores .
dee g , switzerland m & s are and always were middle of the road .
a good place for underwear , a plain pullover : anonymous , unseen , functional , moderate quality .
but evermore people can afford better and want to advertise it - that means less of a mass market in the middle ground .
david , england as a member of staff at m & s , i have seen the changes that the company has made and the commitment to quality that every member of staff has .
as a company we are all working hard to try and get back our unquestionable reputation for quality service value and innovation .
although we have problems and we accept that our clothes appeal is n't always good , we would have a task which is a lot easier if the media did not enjoy kicking a company when it is down , if you have n't been to m & s in a while , go back i am sure you will see a change .
staff member marks and spencer , uk marks et spencer : they failed to move with the times , and , just like the dinosaurs , though they were once the kings of retailing , they will die out .
c 'est la vie , c 'est le mort !
eric moncheray , uk / france everyone i know who shops at m & s here in brussels , goes there for the food .
m & s should focus on that part of their business abroad and drop the clothing that has way too many competitors .
colin o 'brien , belgium in the leadership 's attempt to become trendy their products became shoddy , and their customers have left them in droves john gant , uk marks & spencer is similar to rover and the conservative party .
they had a solid group of faithful followers who liked their products .
but in the leadership 's attempt to become trendy and cater for fringe minority interests their products became shoddy , and their customers have left them in droves : probably never to return .
john gant , uk as a member of m & s staff for 12 years , i have seen the company on the way up , at the peak and then come crashing down .
there certainly was an atmosphere of arrogance in management 5 years ago , and this coupled with the petty bickering at board level is in my opinion what led to our downfall .
we lost focus and paid the price .
to those who would criticise m & s for sourcing more products from overseas : you have to realise this came as a direct response to customers saying that we were overpriced .
the fact is that some of the british suppliers were simply not competitive enough .
nobody complains about other high street stores who do n't buy british , probably because they never have .
it was regrettable but i believe necessary to enable us to compete .
daniel white , bristol , uk large scale retailing has always been a very difficult industry to stay in because " the formula " eventually becomes self-destructing .
the bigger you are , the more " quality " is offset with " price " , and maintaining the balance is extremely challenging .
today 's examples of success -lrb- walmart , for instance -rrb- , can just as easily become tomorrow 's failures .
m & s lasted as long as they did because they stuck with the " quality " side of the equation , as soon as they ventured into the " price " side , they were just another retailer .
mark m. newdick , usa / uk the food section at m & s paris was amazing , and i 'll be really sorry to see it go rahul s , france i 'm not a big clothes shopper , but the food section at m & s paris was amazing , and i 'll be really sorry to see it go .
it seems many people in paris would probably agree - it was always crowded there , and there really does n't seem to be any equivalent to it elsewhere .
i do hope they keep that going , even if they close up the clothes section : it seems silly to shut down something that 's doing well just because it 's not the company 's traditional line of business .
rahul s , france the impression is of attempts at cost cutting jon g , uk m & s have treated the uk textile industry disgracefully in recent years when their decline has been entirely due to m & s management decisions .
they should provide quality , variety and promote uk manufacturing .
the food is not as good as it used to be either .
the impression is of attempts at cost cutting .
m & s customers would be prepared to pay to keep the quality .
jon g , uk it is a shame that m & s is closing their stores in continental europe , i am one of the people who will lose their job , i have been working for m & s for nine years and i can not understand this decision .
i give m & s two years in the uk and then it also over and out for them because of the lack of thought by management .
thanks mr luc van der velde !
mirella joëls , netherlands m & s need to remember where their prime market is michael bruce , uk m & s need to remember where their prime market is - people with more than average money to spend , on produce which is more than average quality .
m & s do this very successfully in the food halls , they used to do it with the clothes .
now i buy most of my clothes from selfridges .
michael bruce , uk i wonder if you are going to send these comments to marks and spencer bosses ?
they should see what " their " public think of them - but , will they act on it or just continue in their complacency ?
larraine , cyprus the most probable reason for the empty m & s stores in singapore is high cost and uncaring staff .
enter any other clothes retailer of a similar category and you are welcomed by friendly assistants and the prices are reasonable .
it is obvious that m & s in singapore and elsewhere is out of touch and does not understand the market .
loyal customers have been betrayed by poor management and complacency .
adam james , singapore they failed to see the emergence of a sophisticated customer who expected a shopping experience john stephenson , uk i was a graduate trainee with m & s - yes the training was fantastic , but even 10 years ago the arrogance and complacency of the company was astounding .
in fact as a new employee , that was the most astonishing thing .
they looked down on all competition as inferior and expected the customer to take what they were given .
they failed to see the emergence of a sophisticated customer who expected a shopping experience while shopping , rather than the dull , dated stores they continue to provide .
in fact their flagship glasgow store is a disaster even after years of renovation .
when once the mantra of " quality , value , service " might have meant something to the company , over the last 5 years this has gone .
the quality of the clothing - in terms of cloth , style and finishing - is deplorable , the clothes are overpriced , and the customer service is now shoddy .
if they are ever to get back on their feet again -lrb- and i doubt they will ever regain what they had -rrb- they will have to concentrate on rebuilding their quality , value and service .
john stephenson , uk having lived in the uk for several years , it took me a while before i would shop at m & s because in the early 90 's , the shop seemed to be filled with old fashioned clothing .
a few years later , it made great strides at having more up to date styles .
the food hall i thought was great but it was very expensive .
most everything in uk is so ridiculously overpriced and wages so low it really does surprise me how m & s could be in such trouble .
i look back now and i wonder how i managed as well as many of my hard working friends and family .
kelly , usa m & s used to be where everyone shopped , and where one bought quality goods made by british manufactures like daks or coats viyella .
the fabrics were innovative , the quality excellent , the clothes were practical and catered for a variety of shapes , tastes and pockets .
those days are long past .
the clothes are now tacky , cheap and shoddy -lrb- and that includes the autograph designer ranges -rrb- .
i shop elsewhere and so does everyone else .
marina donald , scotland if m & s starts to give the customers what they want , sure it will recover simon cameron , uk if m & s starts to give the customers what they want , sure it will recover .
price , quality , product range , product appeal and marketing strategies are the key determinants of the success of any business enterprise .
i run a retail business myself .
i have found that sales respond readily to even minor trading adjustments , provided they are well thought out .
free offers , give-aways and other such promotional ' gimmicks ' are often unexpectedly effective .
simon cameron , uk the slow demise of m & s really does n't surprise me .
as a transplanted brit , we were delighted when m & s came to canada - except they stubbornly refused to adapt to a different market -talk about boring !
we predicted their failure - and it happened !
john dean , canada get back on track with your core , quality , well-priced goods and you 'll have a winner again ann thornton , new zealand i feel very sad at what 's happening at m & s. my first job was with m & s at their ho way back in the 70 's and the standards they instilled then i still use today .
get back on track with your core , quality , well-priced goods and you 'll have a winner again .
ann thornton , new zealand i am desperate to see an m & s in florida .
the food section is unmatched in this country .
i know m & s would make big money here .
colin felton , usa oh please , the simple problem with marks and spencers is glaringly obvious .
walk into the shop and just look , do you see any colour .
no its beige , grey and black .
to survive they need to diverse their product range , appeal to a wider customer base , promote their financial services with a passion like tesco has done with its personal finance range introduce a loyalty card even and dare i say it start to look at out of town developments and develop new store formats for different circumstances .
as anne robinson might say you have to be ruthless to be rich !
mike burns , inverness , scotland hear !
hear !
m & s are entirely the authors of their own misfortune .
they abandoned the quality products which their long-term loyal customers relied on .
ditched their uk manufacturing workers , and replaced everything with shoddy , tacky stuff instead .
over the past few years i have written to their buyers several times about this and basically got the brush off .
they did n't want to listen to us - the customers and what we wanted , so now their paying the price .
it 's just a pity that their hard-working loyal employees will have to pay the price for their management 's mis-management .
susan , usa -lrb- formerly uk -rrb- as a staff member , i would encourage everyone to leave their idea of " dull and boring " at home and shop with an unbiased attitude .
with stock changing all the time , why not look at the new styles ?
they 're not as bad as you seem to think !
i think the media is too harsh on m & s - this is what makes our customers stay away , and it does n't do much for uk staff morale .
would you like to be described as " failing " and having " lost your spark " ?
david j , scotland m & s have only themselves to blame for any decline in sales lately jennifer , uk m & s have only themselves to blame for any decline in sales lately .
they have tried to ' re-vamp ' themselves when , in fact , all they have done is attempted to copy the dozens of clothing shops for the young and trendy - and failed .
there are plenty of places for those who like the latest styles - we do n't need m & s to join in too .
but sadly quality is being replaced by cheap tacky imports all over the high street .
jennifer , uk in hong kong , m & s 's clothing is too " traditional " for working ladies under 40 .
this group possesses strong buying power and considers m & s 's clothing too classic in our society .
so the lack of marketing sense is probably the cause of m & s failure in hong kong market .
angel ma , hong kong sar , china i stopped buying m & s clothes once i saw most of my peers wearing m & s clothes .
who wants to wear the same suit and tie as your work mates ?
mark adams , uk m & s was not challenged for over a decade and became complacent .
it is now being challenged from all sides and does n't have the ability to respond .
after three years of constant restructuring it lacks focus and the customers have moved on .
it will recover , but i doubt it will ever resurrect the glory days of old !
peter sewell , uk the only credibility the current m & s brand has is in the food sector ian , uk given that m & s has lost the plot in the clothing market , why does n't it just concentrate on what it 's good at - i.e. quality food products ?
tesco , sainsbury 's and waitrose have tried to emulate m & s with their ' finest ' ranges etc . , but for the most part , they have failed to match m & s in this niche market .
in my view , the only credibility the current m & s brand has is in the food sector .
ian , uk m & s needs a serious image overhaul .
flogging its shops is a good start - the layouts are awful and the staff miserable with rubbish service .
get its share price up in a falling market and the subsequent excitement may filter out into retail sales .
richard n , uk i 'd grown up with marks & sparks so when i moved to hong kong for 9 years i was pleased to find them there .
they were the only store in hong kong that stocked my size at affordable prices .
the hong kong stores are doing tremendously well so it is surprising to hear that they are being franchised .
they are certainly filling a niche in the hk market .
why ca n't management look to those stores to discover the reason for their success and adapt it to the uk or elsewhere ?
jacqui miller , canada closing their european stores is a remarkably short-sighted move if the extremely busy trade in their paris stores is anything to go by ; and the stores are very popular with the locals - certainly not just ex-pats in search of the odd scone !
a. miranda , france as an uk expatriate in belgium , i have a different perspective on m & s - it provides a taste of home on the continent , and a welcome one at that .
it can also be a lifesaver - i think it 's the only store in the netherlands that has soft loo roll !
christian j. defeo , belgium i thought my day had started badly enough having to deal with yet another train strike here in paris but i could n't believe the m & s european / rest of the world closures news !
alison darby , france i thought my day had started badly enough having to deal with yet another train strike here in paris but i could n't believe the m & s european / rest of the world closures news !
i 'm shell-shocked .
m & s is one of the few accessible places to purchase non-french wine , such are the protectionist attitudes not to mention " foreign dishes " of quality none too accessible in french supermarkets over here unlike the uk !
alison darby , france i think m & s is very good high quality shop .
the food is really nice and the cloths are starting to get nicer .
so i think in a few years m & s will be back on top .
william dryden , uk at one time when you went to an m & s store you were met with well cut clothes of excellent quality .
no longer i think quality is really where it has gone pear shaped , especially as their prices have gone up & up .
at one time they were big fish in a small pond but longer - the pond is now huge .
gillian , united kingdom it really is time that m & s went back to their old ways and realise that their customers are the ones that pay their wages , we do now expect our complaints to be listened to and respected and a little of the now old-fashioned good manners .
style and quality would be much appreciated .
v bartholomew , uk i think m & s lost the plot some time ago .
i had 2 lovely m & s polo-neck pullovers , the kind of classic clothing which you can find in most wardrobes .
i wore them out and went back for 2 more .
sorry , we do n't make those any more .
when we boring men , who are not slaves to fashion find something we like , we want to replace it with something exactly the same .
michael , uk m & s is just another example of a business taking its customers for granted for so many years jamie crampton , uk m & s is just another example of a business taking its customers for granted for so many years and then hitting the panic button , i.e. shedding staff , to cover up for poor management quality .
these people are on salaries most of us can only dream about , yet time after time the only solution they can come up with to cover themselves is to shed staff , usually at customer level .
jamie crampton , uk if the uk media would just stop beating them while they are down they might have a better chance !
k. jackson , usa ex uk high street culture has changed and m & s just needs to get it 's stores and lines up to date .
however , quality should continue to be the first priority for all it 's products - that 's what made m & s in the first place , and it 'll break them if they lose it .
richard , uk m & s lost my family 's support when it chose to turn its back on british suppliers for its clothing .
the present lines look rather tacky , and pseudo-trendy .
i also hear many people complaining that m & s garments no longer fit properly .
if m & s started asking what their customers really want , then they might see a turn-round in their fortunes .
i 've written to them on a number of occasions bewailing their purchasing decisions and absence of stock essential items , but any reply i 've received has not given the impression that m & s management is prepared to respond to the views of its customers .
k. roden , great britain ... and could somebody please tell their staff to cheer up ?
gillian white , scotland i used to buy practically all of my cloths in m & s , but have not been inside a store for nearly a year .
who are they aiming their clothes at ?
customers who once relied on them to provide comfortable clothes with a good fit appear to have been ditched in favour of the trendy brigade .
m & s no longer has a niche - their clothes are too common to be really desirable , but too expensive to be mass market .
and could somebody please tell their staff to cheer up ?
gillian white , scotland i would like to suggest one easy fix solution to the m & s crisis but one that is a fundamental issue to many of its shoppers - put the price back on the clothes tickets ! !
i am personally frustrated by having to seek out the price label markers from behind the racks of clothes and never being quite sure if it is the right marker .
this has led me to walk out without making a purchase on many occasions .
when will the powers that be recognise that an initiative intended to reduce costs has actually reduced sales and reverse this policy ?
liz phelps , uk m & s will never recover as long as it continues to manufacture clothes cheaply overseas graham southorn , uk m & s will never recover as long as it continues to manufacture clothes cheaply overseas .
they are shoddy quality and yet we pay the same prices as when they were made in the uk .
m & s has forgotten that quality counts .
instead it has followed other designer brands - unfortunately for m & s its name does not have the same " cachet " and it has deservedly come unstuck .
graham southorn , uk i think that m & s has improved greatly over the past few years - i would never have considered shopping for clothes there until recently , as they are certainly more stylish and up to date now .
i shop in m & s more than ever now and my local store is never quiet .
perhaps it is a case of bad press causing some customers to stay away and not realising that the stores have made great improvements .
alan sanderson , scotland it will be interesting to see what changes will occur through the latest store refurbishment 's .
i ca n't see how retrenchment to concentrate on " classic styles " and the " core customer " will make the brand any less boring in the eyes of consumers than it has been in recent years .
andy millward , uk jack of all trades , master of none .
ajay , uk m & s simply can not compete with the nike 's and adidas 's of today 's corporate world .
nor has it found a definite niche for itself , desperately trying to cater to all groups .
jack of all trades , master of none .
ajay , uk of course they can recover .
all they have to do is offer what people want .
i 'm a boring middle-aged engineer who has always bought shirts and underwear from m & s and the only reason i have n't replaced anything recently is that the last stuff i bought was so good it has n't worn out yet , but when it does , i 'll be back -lrb- if they 're still there -rrb- .
and as the age-ing section of the population gets larger there 's no reason they ca n't continue to sell sensibly designed well made products to it .
p , uk m & s should concentrate on what they are good at .
their food halls are the finest .
they should open smaller branches around the country .
carol a partington , uk marks & spencers were arrogant enough to believe that sensible pullovers and tweed would always be desired on the high street .
however times change and consumers of today are much more sophisticated .
we seek variety , convenience and of course , competitive pricing .
m & s is none of these , refusing to revamp themselves along with other retailers in the early part of the 1990s by offering greater choice , payment via credit cards and affordable goods .
this i feel , is too little too late , i for one , have no further need for argyle sweaters .
rebecca southwell , uk for what it 's worth i still buy clothes from m & s. although perhaps not the most " fashionable " outlet , the prices are reasonable and for the most part the products are well made .
i 'd rather pay less for fair quality than pay over the odds for an over-rated " designer " name , especially since everybody and their dog seems to be a " designer " these days .
john b , uk search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide news and analysis profits soar strong start to 2002 greek success christmas cheer investor windfall top job split on cards
<p>
bbc news -pipe- talking point -pipe- m & s : can it ever recover ? low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : talking point front page world uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point forum in depth audiovideo wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 07:32 gmt 08:32 uk m & s : can it ever recover ?
troubled british retailer marks & spencer is to abandon its european , american and far east operations .
the retrenchment to the uk , which will affect thousands of jobs , is the latest plan in efforts to halt a relentless slide in sales and profits .
uk stores and product ranges will be revamped .
m & s has already tried to spruce up its image by hiring a top clothes designer and launching ambitious advertising campaigns .
but the results are yet to be seen .
new chairman luc vandevelde has given himself a year to turn the m & s ship around .
can he do it ?
will marks & spencer ever return to its glory days at the top of the retailing pecking order ?
or has the shop simply lost the plot for good ?
this debate is now closed .
read a selection of your comments below .
your reaction it was a big blow to m & s shoppers when it was decided to close their stores in canada amanda r. sinclair , canada it was a big blow to m & s shoppers when it was decided to close their stores in canada .
the prices were a little bit more than say walmart but the quality was always there .
but the biggest blow was no longer being able to buy m & s foods , not a large selection but enough to keep us happy .
we now have to wait until we visit the uk -lrb- providing the company is still in business -rrb- to enjoy their goodies .
as for closing their paris store i think the management must be way off base to do such a thing .
let us all hope that the new ceo will turn the company around so that shoppers will still be able to say i bought some things at marks today .
r. sinclair , canada everything that i am wearing at the moment , bar my shoes , is m & s. i have always bought underwear from them and they have traditionally been my automatic port of call for suits , ties , shirts etc for work .
until recently that is .
m & s nowadays appear to be under the mistaken impression that it is price that has driven people away and has reduced prices by reducing the quality .
the shirt i have on now has washed poorly and is like a limp rag compared to some of my others .
i shall be looking elsewhere for its replacement if m & s do not go back to their old uk suppliers and give value for money rather than simply low prices .
if i want to wear cheap tat then i can get it for less at plenty of other places .
james , england strategically m & s have become stuck in the middle .
certainly their clothing market is neither appealing to the younger fashion market to whom the brand is synonymous with adult conservative clothing or the older market who will have noticed that the quality of garments has been compromised as m & s has tried to produce more ' stylish ' clothing .
they really need to decide which way to go , but to try and please to distinctly different markets simultaneously will be commercial suicide .
rory mcknight , uk the negative vibes from your letter writers is sad to see .
the british public has turned into a load of moaners .
m & s has through the years offered real value for money .
while you could say they are expensive the quality has always been good .
i have bought numerous suits from them , they offer the best choice of mix and match sizes anywhere .
the food halls always offer that special something you can not find in other supermarkets .
the staff are always courteous and helpful , and before you may think i work for them , i do n't .
i just wanted to send a positive message for a change .
ian , uk the staff are friendly claire powell , belgium i can only echo the thoughts of my fellow ex-pats here .
the brussels m & s does very well -lrb- it seems to me , i ca n't speak about the other three branches in belgium -rrb- in the food section .
we 're always there buying something so perhaps they should concentrate on that area .
the staff are friendly and they 've left out a suggestion book for us to write in which has become a petition in all but name .
i signed it on saturday and noticed remarks in french and dutch so the locals also want it to remain open .
a friend tells me that she joined a long queue to sign it today .
i just hope the management listens .
i note that even lionel jospin takes great exception to the paris one closing down .
claire , brussels , belgium claire powell , belgium i admire m & s as an institution and am sorry it has fallen on hard times .
but as an american and long time brooks brothers shopper , i am delighted that m & s is selling off brooks brothers .
since buying this icon of traditional american dress , m & s has reinvented it as a fashion conscious clothier .
but i do n't want fashion .
i want a place where i can buy the stodgy old 3 button sack suits that i have worn for years .
i wish m & s well and hope that it will soon regain its reputation for quality that has served it so well .
mason alexander , usa m & s 's problem is that they infuriate their customers by continually changing the store layout which results in people wandering around lost , confused and highly irritated , when all they wanted to do was find the yoghurt stand .
futhermore , they bring out a product -lrb- either clothes or food -rrb- , wait for it to become extremely popular and then discontinue it with sadistic glee .
lawrence , england i am the nightmare of retailers .
i am a floating buyer .
i buy from a large variety of outlets , including the web , catalogues and high street stores .
i have no prejudice about m & s and would have no hesitation buying from them if i like something , which does happen !
pascal jacquemain , uk -lrb- french -rrb- ever since i left the uk , the one thing that i still get sent over is m & s underwear .
m & s can be comforted that even as their uk customers abandon them in droves , they still have some loyal ones here in canada who wear their merchandise close to their hearts !
max ben arye , canada if only it had been an april fool 's joke - but the only fools are the top managers .
gone are the times when management 's only concern was for its shareholders - now we also have to think of customers and personnel , many of whom have been loyal to the brand for years .
marks and spencer 's still has many things going for it - mainly the excellent quality and design of its men 's and children 's clothes -lrb- though a little expensive -rrb- - and now even women 's clothes are starting to move away from the " middle-class , middle-aged " look with the arrival of modern suits .
the task ahead will be difficult .
as a loyal customer of m & s , i hope that they will recover and eventually make it back to the continent .
once again it 's the personnel that are paying the price for this mismanagement and it will be a sad day in france when the stores close .
frances price , france others will be happy to take up the niche for sensible pullovers and tweed partchev , germany they 're mad .
i was hoping they would open up more shops in germany , so that i would not have to go as far as cologne to buy clothes - now they expect me to go to london instead .
i feel that whatever their new bosses do must be wrong .
others will be happy to take up the niche for sensible pullovers and tweed on the continent , and m & s can go on scrapping shops in britain , once they have done away with those in europe .
partchev , germany m & s were used in an open university course as a model for a forward looking organisation that set high standards , spread technology and achieved a level of quality envied in the clothing trade .
perhaps the superior attitude also made them lose sight of their objectives - to provide value for money product , thereby making a profit .
unfortunately the product is now dull and overpriced .
the service is terrible and most staff seem to resent your presence .
i now pass through m & s on the way to other shops .
if i see " reduced " tags i may stop , but usually the style forces me to move on .
it 's a pity but all dinosaurs must eventually die or evolve .
m & s rip , you waited too long .
david wilson , uk i love their wool cardigans in basic grey -lrb- like the ones we used to wear as school uniform -rrb- .
on the food side , if their chocolate fudge cake -lrb- the kind in the opaque ridged case -rrb- went out of production , i would shoot myself .
matt , uk as an expat on a temporary posting to france i am obviously saddened by the news that m & s are closing their non-uk stores .
i grew up with the m & s habit , and the quality underwear and food are -lrb- or rather were -rrb- one of life 's certainties .
all i can say is that we will learn to live without m & s - and that will apply when we return to the uk as well !
david proctor , france their out-sourcing policy has led to poor quality and a loss of confidence in their products rob blaney , uk i recently bought a shirt from m & s for £ 25.00 and found that the seam was faulty .
i took it back to the hanley store and , as it was made in mauritius , i lost confidence in their foreign out-sourcing of production and i wanted a shirt made in the uk .
despite searching the whole of the men 's department , the staff could find no shirt made in the uk .
m & s used to be a symbol of quality , but their out-sourcing policy has led to poor quality and a loss of confidence in their products .
rob blaney , uk as an ex-pat , when i do get to england one of the experiences i 've always looked forward to is a visit to marks and spencer .
the last couple of years have been a real disappointment .
they seem to have lost their way in an effort to get more customers and , i think , have ended up sacrificing quality and style -lrb- however boring it was , it was always dependable -rrb- .
it 's a shame because i used to put it on my " must visit " list for friends going to the uk but i now feel their time and money would be better spent elsewhere .
i 'll still stop by on my trips though - the deluxe bread and butter pudding is something i dream about !
susan beck , usa as an ex uk manager , i am desperately sad to see the latest developments in the painful three year demise of m & s. richard greenbury -lrb- i ca n't bring myself to include the sir -rrb- has a lot to answer for .
his total mismanagement of the company , coupled with a weak board of directors caused irreparable damage .
exacerbating the situation was his arrogance with the british media , feeding the journalistic frenzy of negative articles .
i sincerely hope that chairman vandevelde can overcome this shameful legacy , both for the customers and the thousands of dedicated , hardworking members of staff .
mrs. s. jones , usa the media also plays its part by being negative sanjiv r , uk m & s lost customer focus in the past .
providing they can regain this , they should be ok .
the media also plays its part by being negative .
sanjiv r , uk m & s have really lost the plot and what was their strongest selling point .
they 've never been trendy or fashionable .
they are too large to compete with the select brands and too expensive to compete in the mass market and yet try to do both .
m & s used to be the place where you went for high-quality basic clothing items ; the sort of thing you wore year after year .
if you needed a basic black work suit , a smart polo neck or good underwear then m & s was the place to go .
now you can only buy things like that when they happen to be in fashion .
in my opinion they should go back to their core strengths and return to high quality , well priced , well designed , stylish classic items .
anna , uk as a parisian i will miss m & s greatly .
i shop in their rue de rivoli food hall at least once a week to buy wonderful things like english ' bangers ' , smoked bacon , and oh , the bread .
their range of pre-packed meals has saved many a day .
my baby son loves his visits where the staff always make him feel welcome .
i would have bought a coat there this winter if i could have found one that did not look as though i was wearing a tent , and £ 200 at that .
i hope they sort themselves out and come back soon .
the cost of eurostar will have be added to my food bill .
john , france the problem with m & s is that they no longer do what they are good at - providing classic , high quality fashions at a reasonable price .
h grotius , uk as long as m & s is committed to a policy of arrogance , people will not buy from m & s. in my opinion they are another rip .
bodipala wijeyesinghe , uk if they sack anyone they should start with the accountants stephen j whitworth , philippines i have shopped at m & s regularly twice a year at least during visits back to the uk , and since they have changed to getting the majority of their clothing from outside the uk the quality of their clothing has gone down .
two years ago the headlines were " m & s only make a billion pounds profit " , or similar .
is n't the point that vast profit margins -lrb- that seem to be required by uk companies -rrb- on clothes are going down .
the accountants persuaded the company to try and get the same profit margins out of clothes .
impossible nowadays , the margins on clothing are coming down everywhere and there are less and less developing countries keen to get in on this business .
the successes of m & s have been on food , and recently in home goods .
applying the same quality control procedures to other product areas is the strength of m & s. i shop there -lrb- or did -rrb- to get good quality everyday clothes that last a long time and were invariably always made in the uk .
i would be happy to buy many other products on the same basis .
the m & s brand is not slick but it was always reliable .
if they sack anyone they should start with the accountants or marketing or management consultants that came up with such a strategy .
m & s does not stand for anything now in the uk except the quest for high profit .
stephen j whitworth , philippines m & s is a multi-hundred million pound profit making business and is what might be called , if your feeling only slightly generous , a decent employer and a fair retailer , when you consider the proportion of people in this country on the payroll and the quality of goods found within .
what is however more important given that the business makes money and employs a good deal of people who in turn pay good organised taxes is what the hell is going on ?
the company are turning their backs on a direct catalogue market when competitors are throwing more money at it , why could this be ?
the cynics among us , of which i am one , would claim that with the incentive deals offered to the " new team " who incidentally are n't so new and have certainly been there long enough to shoulder some blame , are on dividend linked salaries and what better way to move the share price than to begin their cowardice dismantling of a great profit making business and a national institution than to make 5,000 people out of a job and ask us all to go back in time to the penny bazaars !
i know for a fact that that their new catalogue for summer which is now going to be destroyed cost over £ 1 million pound to produce !
who is accountable for that then we should ask , while 700 - 1000 people join the unemployed in the uk and a further 4,000 in mainland europe all go without work .
something is clearly not right about this and it smacks of personal greed , does n't anyone else care !
paul o , england ok , you have got to turn the company around in a year - so let 's take a sledgehammer to the areas that are really doing well .
you are making your biggest mistake yet , m & s. having lived in paris for two years , i remember how , every time i visited boulevard haussman m & s , it was filled with customers throughout .
and half of english speaking switzerland travel to the strasbourg m & s on a regular basis !
drop the sledgehammer , analyse france and the rest carefully , and do n't throw away the profit earning stores .
dee g , switzerland m & s are and always were middle of the road .
a good place for underwear , a plain pullover : anonymous , unseen , functional , moderate quality .
but evermore people can afford better and want to advertise it - that means less of a mass market in the middle ground .
david , england as a member of staff at m & s , i have seen the changes that the company has made and the commitment to quality that every member of staff has .
as a company we are all working hard to try and get back our unquestionable reputation for quality service value and innovation .
although we have problems and we accept that our clothes appeal is n't always good , we would have a task which is a lot easier if the media did not enjoy kicking a company when it is down , if you have n't been to m & s in a while , go back i am sure you will see a change .
staff member marks and spencer , uk marks et spencer : they failed to move with the times , and , just like the dinosaurs , though they were once the kings of retailing , they will die out .
c 'est la vie , c 'est le mort !
eric moncheray , uk / france everyone i know who shops at m & s here in brussels , goes there for the food .
m & s should focus on that part of their business abroad and drop the clothing that has way too many competitors .
colin o 'brien , belgium in the leadership 's attempt to become trendy their products became shoddy , and their customers have left them in droves john gant , uk marks & spencer is similar to rover and the conservative party .
they had a solid group of faithful followers who liked their products .
but in the leadership 's attempt to become trendy and cater for fringe minority interests their products became shoddy , and their customers have left them in droves : probably never to return .
john gant , uk as a member of m & s staff for 12 years , i have seen the company on the way up , at the peak and then come crashing down .
there certainly was an atmosphere of arrogance in management 5 years ago , and this coupled with the petty bickering at board level is in my opinion what led to our downfall .
we lost focus and paid the price .
to those who would criticise m & s for sourcing more products from overseas : you have to realise this came as a direct response to customers saying that we were overpriced .
the fact is that some of the british suppliers were simply not competitive enough .
nobody complains about other high street stores who do n't buy british , probably because they never have .
it was regrettable but i believe necessary to enable us to compete .
daniel white , bristol , uk large scale retailing has always been a very difficult industry to stay in because " the formula " eventually becomes self-destructing .
the bigger you are , the more " quality " is offset with " price " , and maintaining the balance is extremely challenging .
today 's examples of success -lrb- walmart , for instance -rrb- , can just as easily become tomorrow 's failures .
m & s lasted as long as they did because they stuck with the " quality " side of the equation , as soon as they ventured into the " price " side , they were just another retailer .
mark m. newdick , usa / uk the food section at m & s paris was amazing , and i 'll be really sorry to see it go rahul s , france i 'm not a big clothes shopper , but the food section at m & s paris was amazing , and i 'll be really sorry to see it go .
it seems many people in paris would probably agree - it was always crowded there , and there really does n't seem to be any equivalent to it elsewhere .
i do hope they keep that going , even if they close up the clothes section : it seems silly to shut down something that 's doing well just because it 's not the company 's traditional line of business .
rahul s , france the impression is of attempts at cost cutting jon g , uk m & s have treated the uk textile industry disgracefully in recent years when their decline has been entirely due to m & s management decisions .
they should provide quality , variety and promote uk manufacturing .
the food is not as good as it used to be either .
the impression is of attempts at cost cutting .
m & s customers would be prepared to pay to keep the quality .
jon g , uk it is a shame that m & s is closing their stores in continental europe , i am one of the people who will lose their job , i have been working for m & s for nine years and i can not understand this decision .
i give m & s two years in the uk and then it also over and out for them because of the lack of thought by management .
thanks mr luc van der velde !
mirella joëls , netherlands m & s need to remember where their prime market is michael bruce , uk m & s need to remember where their prime market is - people with more than average money to spend , on produce which is more than average quality .
m & s do this very successfully in the food halls , they used to do it with the clothes .
now i buy most of my clothes from selfridges .
michael bruce , uk i wonder if you are going to send these comments to marks and spencer bosses ?
they should see what " their " public think of them - but , will they act on it or just continue in their complacency ?
larraine , cyprus the most probable reason for the empty m & s stores in singapore is high cost and uncaring staff .
enter any other clothes retailer of a similar category and you are welcomed by friendly assistants and the prices are reasonable .
it is obvious that m & s in singapore and elsewhere is out of touch and does not understand the market .
loyal customers have been betrayed by poor management and complacency .
adam james , singapore they failed to see the emergence of a sophisticated customer who expected a shopping experience john stephenson , uk i was a graduate trainee with m & s - yes the training was fantastic , but even 10 years ago the arrogance and complacency of the company was astounding .
in fact as a new employee , that was the most astonishing thing .
they looked down on all competition as inferior and expected the customer to take what they were given .
they failed to see the emergence of a sophisticated customer who expected a shopping experience while shopping , rather than the dull , dated stores they continue to provide .
in fact their flagship glasgow store is a disaster even after years of renovation .
when once the mantra of " quality , value , service " might have meant something to the company , over the last 5 years this has gone .
the quality of the clothing - in terms of cloth , style and finishing - is deplorable , the clothes are overpriced , and the customer service is now shoddy .
if they are ever to get back on their feet again -lrb- and i doubt they will ever regain what they had -rrb- they will have to concentrate on rebuilding their quality , value and service .
john stephenson , uk having lived in the uk for several years , it took me a while before i would shop at m & s because in the early 90 's , the shop seemed to be filled with old fashioned clothing .
a few years later , it made great strides at having more up to date styles .
the food hall i thought was great but it was very expensive .
most everything in uk is so ridiculously overpriced and wages so low it really does surprise me how m & s could be in such trouble .
i look back now and i wonder how i managed as well as many of my hard working friends and family .
kelly , usa m & s used to be where everyone shopped , and where one bought quality goods made by british manufactures like daks or coats viyella .
the fabrics were innovative , the quality excellent , the clothes were practical and catered for a variety of shapes , tastes and pockets .
those days are long past .
the clothes are now tacky , cheap and shoddy -lrb- and that includes the autograph designer ranges -rrb- .
i shop elsewhere and so does everyone else .
marina donald , scotland if m & s starts to give the customers what they want , sure it will recover simon cameron , uk if m & s starts to give the customers what they want , sure it will recover .
price , quality , product range , product appeal and marketing strategies are the key determinants of the success of any business enterprise .
i run a retail business myself .
i have found that sales respond readily to even minor trading adjustments , provided they are well thought out .
free offers , give-aways and other such promotional ' gimmicks ' are often unexpectedly effective .
simon cameron , uk the slow demise of m & s really does n't surprise me .
as a transplanted brit , we were delighted when m & s came to canada - except they stubbornly refused to adapt to a different market -talk about boring !
we predicted their failure - and it happened !
john dean , canada get back on track with your core , quality , well-priced goods and you 'll have a winner again ann thornton , new zealand i feel very sad at what 's happening at m & s. my first job was with m & s at their ho way back in the 70 's and the standards they instilled then i still use today .
get back on track with your core , quality , well-priced goods and you 'll have a winner again .
ann thornton , new zealand i am desperate to see an m & s in florida .
the food section is unmatched in this country .
i know m & s would make big money here .
colin felton , usa oh please , the simple problem with marks and spencers is glaringly obvious .
walk into the shop and just look , do you see any colour .
no its beige , grey and black .
to survive they need to diverse their product range , appeal to a wider customer base , promote their financial services with a passion like tesco has done with its personal finance range introduce a loyalty card even and dare i say it start to look at out of town developments and develop new store formats for different circumstances .
as anne robinson might say you have to be ruthless to be rich !
mike burns , inverness , scotland hear !
hear !
m & s are entirely the authors of their own misfortune .
they abandoned the quality products which their long-term loyal customers relied on .
ditched their uk manufacturing workers , and replaced everything with shoddy , tacky stuff instead .
over the past few years i have written to their buyers several times about this and basically got the brush off .
they did n't want to listen to us - the customers and what we wanted , so now their paying the price .
it 's just a pity that their hard-working loyal employees will have to pay the price for their management 's mis-management .
susan , usa -lrb- formerly uk -rrb- as a staff member , i would encourage everyone to leave their idea of " dull and boring " at home and shop with an unbiased attitude .
with stock changing all the time , why not look at the new styles ?
they 're not as bad as you seem to think !
i think the media is too harsh on m & s - this is what makes our customers stay away , and it does n't do much for uk staff morale .
would you like to be described as " failing " and having " lost your spark " ?
david j , scotland m & s have only themselves to blame for any decline in sales lately jennifer , uk m & s have only themselves to blame for any decline in sales lately .
they have tried to ' re-vamp ' themselves when , in fact , all they have done is attempted to copy the dozens of clothing shops for the young and trendy - and failed .
there are plenty of places for those who like the latest styles - we do n't need m & s to join in too .
but sadly quality is being replaced by cheap tacky imports all over the high street .
jennifer , uk in hong kong , m & s 's clothing is too " traditional " for working ladies under 40 .
this group possesses strong buying power and considers m & s 's clothing too classic in our society .
so the lack of marketing sense is probably the cause of m & s failure in hong kong market .
angel ma , hong kong sar , china i stopped buying m & s clothes once i saw most of my peers wearing m & s clothes .
who wants to wear the same suit and tie as your work mates ?
mark adams , uk m & s was not challenged for over a decade and became complacent .
it is now being challenged from all sides and does n't have the ability to respond .
after three years of constant restructuring it lacks focus and the customers have moved on .
it will recover , but i doubt it will ever resurrect the glory days of old !
peter sewell , uk the only credibility the current m & s brand has is in the food sector ian , uk given that m & s has lost the plot in the clothing market , why does n't it just concentrate on what it 's good at - i.e. quality food products ?
tesco , sainsbury 's and waitrose have tried to emulate m & s with their ' finest ' ranges etc . , but for the most part , they have failed to match m & s in this niche market .
in my view , the only credibility the current m & s brand has is in the food sector .
ian , uk m & s needs a serious image overhaul .
flogging its shops is a good start - the layouts are awful and the staff miserable with rubbish service .
get its share price up in a falling market and the subsequent excitement may filter out into retail sales .
richard n , uk i 'd grown up with marks & sparks so when i moved to hong kong for 9 years i was pleased to find them there .
they were the only store in hong kong that stocked my size at affordable prices .
the hong kong stores are doing tremendously well so it is surprising to hear that they are being franchised .
they are certainly filling a niche in the hk market .
why ca n't management look to those stores to discover the reason for their success and adapt it to the uk or elsewhere ?
jacqui miller , canada closing their european stores is a remarkably short-sighted move if the extremely busy trade in their paris stores is anything to go by ; and the stores are very popular with the locals - certainly not just ex-pats in search of the odd scone !
a. miranda , france as an uk expatriate in belgium , i have a different perspective on m & s - it provides a taste of home on the continent , and a welcome one at that .
it can also be a lifesaver - i think it 's the only store in the netherlands that has soft loo roll !
christian j. defeo , belgium i thought my day had started badly enough having to deal with yet another train strike here in paris but i could n't believe the m & s european / rest of the world closures news !
alison darby , france i thought my day had started badly enough having to deal with yet another train strike here in paris but i could n't believe the m & s european / rest of the world closures news !
i 'm shell-shocked .
m & s is one of the few accessible places to purchase non-french wine , such are the protectionist attitudes not to mention " foreign dishes " of quality none too accessible in french supermarkets over here unlike the uk !
alison darby , france i think m & s is very good high quality shop .
the food is really nice and the cloths are starting to get nicer .
so i think in a few years m & s will be back on top .
william dryden , uk at one time when you went to an m & s store you were met with well cut clothes of excellent quality .
no longer i think quality is really where it has gone pear shaped , especially as their prices have gone up & up .
at one time they were big fish in a small pond but longer - the pond is now huge .
gillian , united kingdom it really is time that m & s went back to their old ways and realise that their customers are the ones that pay their wages , we do now expect our complaints to be listened to and respected and a little of the now old-fashioned good manners .
style and quality would be much appreciated .
v bartholomew , uk i think m & s lost the plot some time ago .
i had 2 lovely m & s polo-neck pullovers , the kind of classic clothing which you can find in most wardrobes .
i wore them out and went back for 2 more .
sorry , we do n't make those any more .
when we boring men , who are not slaves to fashion find something we like , we want to replace it with something exactly the same .
michael , uk m & s is just another example of a business taking its customers for granted for so many years jamie crampton , uk m & s is just another example of a business taking its customers for granted for so many years and then hitting the panic button , i.e. shedding staff , to cover up for poor management quality .
these people are on salaries most of us can only dream about , yet time after time the only solution they can come up with to cover themselves is to shed staff , usually at customer level .
jamie crampton , uk if the uk media would just stop beating them while they are down they might have a better chance !
k. jackson , usa ex uk high street culture has changed and m & s just needs to get it 's stores and lines up to date .
however , quality should continue to be the first priority for all it 's products - that 's what made m & s in the first place , and it 'll break them if they lose it .
richard , uk m & s lost my family 's support when it chose to turn its back on british suppliers for its clothing .
the present lines look rather tacky , and pseudo-trendy .
i also hear many people complaining that m & s garments no longer fit properly .
if m & s started asking what their customers really want , then they might see a turn-round in their fortunes .
i 've written to them on a number of occasions bewailing their purchasing decisions and absence of stock essential items , but any reply i 've received has not given the impression that m & s management is prepared to respond to the views of its customers .
k. roden , great britain ... and could somebody please tell their staff to cheer up ?
gillian white , scotland i used to buy practically all of my cloths in m & s , but have not been inside a store for nearly a year .
who are they aiming their clothes at ?
customers who once relied on them to provide comfortable clothes with a good fit appear to have been ditched in favour of the trendy brigade .
m & s no longer has a niche - their clothes are too common to be really desirable , but too expensive to be mass market .
and could somebody please tell their staff to cheer up ?
gillian white , scotland i would like to suggest one easy fix solution to the m & s crisis but one that is a fundamental issue to many of its shoppers - put the price back on the clothes tickets ! !
i am personally frustrated by having to seek out the price label markers from behind the racks of clothes and never being quite sure if it is the right marker .
this has led me to walk out without making a purchase on many occasions .
when will the powers that be recognise that an initiative intended to reduce costs has actually reduced sales and reverse this policy ?
liz phelps , uk m & s will never recover as long as it continues to manufacture clothes cheaply overseas graham southorn , uk m & s will never recover as long as it continues to manufacture clothes cheaply overseas .
they are shoddy quality and yet we pay the same prices as when they were made in the uk .
m & s has forgotten that quality counts .
instead it has followed other designer brands - unfortunately for m & s its name does not have the same " cachet " and it has deservedly come unstuck .
graham southorn , uk i think that m & s has improved greatly over the past few years - i would never have considered shopping for clothes there until recently , as they are certainly more stylish and up to date now .
i shop in m & s more than ever now and my local store is never quiet .
perhaps it is a case of bad press causing some customers to stay away and not realising that the stores have made great improvements .
alan sanderson , scotland it will be interesting to see what changes will occur through the latest store refurbishment 's .
i ca n't see how retrenchment to concentrate on " classic styles " and the " core customer " will make the brand any less boring in the eyes of consumers than it has been in recent years .
andy millward , uk jack of all trades , master of none .
ajay , uk m & s simply can not compete with the nike 's and adidas 's of today 's corporate world .
nor has it found a definite niche for itself , desperately trying to cater to all groups .
jack of all trades , master of none .
ajay , uk of course they can recover .
all they have to do is offer what people want .
i 'm a boring middle-aged engineer who has always bought shirts and underwear from m & s and the only reason i have n't replaced anything recently is that the last stuff i bought was so good it has n't worn out yet , but when it does , i 'll be back -lrb- if they 're still there -rrb- .
and as the age-ing section of the population gets larger there 's no reason they ca n't continue to sell sensibly designed well made products to it .
p , uk m & s should concentrate on what they are good at .
their food halls are the finest .
they should open smaller branches around the country .
carol a partington , uk marks & spencers were arrogant enough to believe that sensible pullovers and tweed would always be desired on the high street .
however times change and consumers of today are much more sophisticated .
we seek variety , convenience and of course , competitive pricing .
m & s is none of these , refusing to revamp themselves along with other retailers in the early part of the 1990s by offering greater choice , payment via credit cards and affordable goods .
this i feel , is too little too late , i for one , have no further need for argyle sweaters .
rebecca southwell , uk for what it 's worth i still buy clothes from m & s. although perhaps not the most " fashionable " outlet , the prices are reasonable and for the most part the products are well made .
i 'd rather pay less for fair quality than pay over the odds for an over-rated " designer " name , especially since everybody and their dog seems to be a " designer " these days .
john b , uk search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide news and analysis profits soar strong start to 2002 greek success christmas cheer investor windfall top job split on cards ' la fin ' for m & s seeking the spark 2002 's new range underwear war beckham boost designer hats george to the rescue analysis mr turnaround one m & s workers ' story a right to consultation ?
internet links : marks & spencer the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites other talking points : caesarean births : fad or folly ?
are books better than computers ?
are settlements the main obstacle to peace ?
should doctors clone humans ?
smoking : personal choice or public health issue ?
us energy plan : will it work ?
will you buy a gprs phone ?
what is your worst workplace blunder ?
what is the secret to a lasting marriage ?
should the kursk be raised ?
do celebrities in politics make you want to vote ?
links to more talking point stories in this section caesarean births : fad or folly ?
are books better than computers ?
are settlements the main obstacle to peace ?
should doctors clone humans ?
smoking : personal choice or public health issue ?
us energy plan : will it work ?
will you buy a gprs phone ?
what is your worst workplace blunder ?
what is the secret to a lasting marriage ?
should the kursk be raised ?
do celebrities in politics make you want to vote ? ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- talking point -pipe- m & s : can it ever recover ?
front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- talking point contents : forum -pipe- bbc news online : talking point wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 07:32 gmt 08:32 uk m & s : can it ever recover ?
troubled british retailer marks & spencer is to abandon its european , american and far east operations .
the retrenchment to the uk , which will affect thousands of jobs , is the latest plan in efforts to halt a relentless slide in sales and profits .
uk stores and product ranges will be revamped .
m & s has already tried to spruce up its image by hiring a top clothes designer and launching ambitious advertising campaigns .
but the results are yet to be seen .
new chairman luc vandevelde has given himself a year to turn the m & s ship around .
can he do it ?
will marks & spencer ever return to its glory days at the top of the retailing pecking order ?
or has the shop simply lost the plot for good ?
this debate is now closed .
read a selection of your comments below .
your reaction it was a big blow to m & s shoppers when it was decided to close their stores in canada amanda r. sinclair , canada it was a big blow to m & s shoppers when it was decided to close their stores in canada .
the prices were a little bit more than say walmart but the quality was always there .
but the biggest blow was no longer being able to buy m & s foods , not a large selection but enough to keep us happy .
we now have to wait until we visit the uk -lrb- providing the company is still in business -rrb- to enjoy their goodies .
as for closing their paris store i think the management must be way off base to do such a thing .
let us all hope that the new ceo will turn the company around so that shoppers will still be able to say i bought some things at marks today .
r. sinclair , canada everything that i am wearing at the moment , bar my shoes , is m & s. i have always bought underwear from them and they have traditionally been my automatic port of call for suits , ties , shirts etc for work .
until recently that is .
m & s nowadays appear to be under the mistaken impression that it is price that has driven people away and has reduced prices by reducing the quality .
the shirt i have on now has washed poorly and is like a limp rag compared to some of my others .
i shall be looking elsewhere for its replacement if m & s do not go back to their old uk suppliers and give value for money rather than simply low prices .
if i want to wear cheap tat then i can get it for less at plenty of other places .
james , england strategically m & s have become stuck in the middle .
certainly their clothing market is neither appealing to the younger fashion market to whom the brand is synonymous with adult conservative clothing or the older market who will have noticed that the quality of garments has been compromised as m & s has tried to produce more ' stylish ' clothing .
they really need to decide which way to go , but to try and please to distinctly different markets simultaneously will be commercial suicide .
rory mcknight , uk the negative vibes from your letter writers is sad to see .
the british public has turned into a load of moaners .
m & s has through the years offered real value for money .
while you could say they are expensive the quality has always been good .
i have bought numerous suits from them , they offer the best choice of mix and match sizes anywhere .
the food halls always offer that special something you can not find in other supermarkets .
the staff are always courteous and helpful , and before you may think i work for them , i do n't .
i just wanted to send a positive message for a change .
ian , uk the staff are friendly claire powell , belgium i can only echo the thoughts of my fellow ex-pats here .
the brussels m & s does very well -lrb- it seems to me , i ca n't speak about the other three branches in belgium -rrb- in the food section .
we 're always there buying something so perhaps they should concentrate on that area .
the staff are friendly and they 've left out a suggestion book for us to write in which has become a petition in all but name .
i signed it on saturday and noticed remarks in french and dutch so the locals also want it to remain open .
a friend tells me that she joined a long queue to sign it today .
i just hope the management listens .
i note that even lionel jospin takes great exception to the paris one closing down .
claire , brussels , belgium claire powell , belgium i admire m & s as an institution and am sorry it has fallen on hard times .
but as an american and long time brooks brothers shopper , i am delighted that m & s is selling off brooks brothers .
since buying this icon of traditional american dress , m & s has reinvented it as a fashion conscious clothier .
but i do n't want fashion .
i want a place where i can buy the stodgy old 3 button sack suits that i have worn for years .
i wish m & s well and hope that it will soon regain its reputation for quality that has served it so well .
mason alexander , usa m & s 's problem is that they infuriate their customers by continually changing the store layout which results in people wandering around lost , confused and highly irritated , when all they wanted to do was find the yoghurt stand .
futhermore , they bring out a product -lrb- either clothes or food -rrb- , wait for it to become extremely popular and then discontinue it with sadistic glee .
lawrence , england i am the nightmare of retailers .
i am a floating buyer .
i buy from a large variety of outlets , including the web , catalogues and high street stores .
i have no prejudice about m & s and would have no hesitation buying from them if i like something , which does happen !
pascal jacquemain , uk -lrb- french -rrb- ever since i left the uk , the one thing that i still get sent over is m & s underwear .
m & s can be comforted that even as their uk customers abandon them in droves , they still have some loyal ones here in canada who wear their merchandise close to their hearts !
max ben arye , canada if only it had been an april fool 's joke - but the only fools are the top managers .
gone are the times when management 's only concern was for its shareholders - now we also have to think of customers and personnel , many of whom have been loyal to the brand for years .
marks and spencer 's still has many things going for it - mainly the excellent quality and design of its men 's and children 's clothes -lrb- though a little expensive -rrb- - and now even women 's clothes are starting to move away from the " middle-class , middle-aged " look with the arrival of modern suits .
the task ahead will be difficult .
as a loyal customer of m & s , i hope that they will recover and eventually make it back to the continent .
once again it 's the personnel that are paying the price for this mismanagement and it will be a sad day in france when the stores close .
frances price , france others will be happy to take up the niche for sensible pullovers and tweed partchev , germany they 're mad .
i was hoping they would open up more shops in germany , so that i would not have to go as far as cologne to buy clothes - now they expect me to go to london instead .
i feel that whatever their new bosses do must be wrong .
others will be happy to take up the niche for sensible pullovers and tweed on the continent , and m & s can go on scrapping shops in britain , once they have done away with those in europe .
partchev , germany m & s were used in an open university course as a model for a forward looking organisation that set high standards , spread technology and achieved a level of quality envied in the clothing trade .
perhaps the superior attitude also made them lose sight of their objectives - to provide value for money product , thereby making a profit .
unfortunately the product is now dull and overpriced .
the service is terrible and most staff seem to resent your presence .
i now pass through m & s on the way to other shops .
if i see " reduced " tags i may stop , but usually the style forces me to move on .
it 's a pity but all dinosaurs must eventually die or evolve .
m & s rip , you waited too long .
david wilson , uk i love their wool cardigans in basic grey -lrb- like the ones we used to wear as school uniform -rrb- .
on the food side , if their chocolate fudge cake -lrb- the kind in the opaque ridged case -rrb- went out of production , i would shoot myself .
matt , uk as an expat on a temporary posting to france i am obviously saddened by the news that m & s are closing their non-uk stores .
i grew up with the m & s habit , and the quality underwear and food are -lrb- or rather were -rrb- one of life 's certainties .
all i can say is that we will learn to live without m & s - and that will apply when we return to the uk as well !
david proctor , france their out-sourcing policy has led to poor quality and a loss of confidence in their products rob blaney , uk i recently bought a shirt from m & s for £ 25.00 and found that the seam was faulty .
i took it back to the hanley store and , as it was made in mauritius , i lost confidence in their foreign out-sourcing of production and i wanted a shirt made in the uk .
despite searching the whole of the men 's department , the staff could find no shirt made in the uk .
m & s used to be a symbol of quality , but their out-sourcing policy has led to poor quality and a loss of confidence in their products .
rob blaney , uk as an ex-pat , when i do get to england one of the experiences i 've always looked forward to is a visit to marks and spencer .
the last couple of years have been a real disappointment .
they seem to have lost their way in an effort to get more customers and , i think , have ended up sacrificing quality and style -lrb- however boring it was , it was always dependable -rrb- .
it 's a shame because i used to put it on my " must visit " list for friends going to the uk but i now feel their time and money would be better spent elsewhere .
i 'll still stop by on my trips though - the deluxe bread and butter pudding is something i dream about !
susan beck , usa as an ex uk manager , i am desperately sad to see the latest developments in the painful three year demise of m & s. richard greenbury -lrb- i ca n't bring myself to include the sir -rrb- has a lot to answer for .
his total mismanagement of the company , coupled with a weak board of directors caused irreparable damage .
exacerbating the situation was his arrogance with the british media , feeding the journalistic frenzy of negative articles .
i sincerely hope that chairman vandevelde can overcome this shameful legacy , both for the customers and the thousands of dedicated , hardworking members of staff .
mrs. s. jones , usa the media also plays its part by being negative sanjiv r , uk m & s lost customer focus in the past .
providing they can regain this , they should be ok .
the media also plays its part by being negative .
sanjiv r , uk m & s have really lost the plot and what was their strongest selling point .
they 've never been trendy or fashionable .
they are too large to compete with the select brands and too expensive to compete in the mass market and yet try to do both .
m & s used to be the place where you went for high-quality basic clothing items ; the sort of thing you wore year after year .
if you needed a basic black work suit , a smart polo neck or good underwear then m & s was the place to go .
now you can only buy things like that when they happen to be in fashion .
in my opinion they should go back to their core strengths and return to high quality , well priced , well designed , stylish classic items .
anna , uk as a parisian i will miss m & s greatly .
i shop in their rue de rivoli food hall at least once a week to buy wonderful things like english ' bangers ' , smoked bacon , and oh , the bread .
their range of pre-packed meals has saved many a day .
my baby son loves his visits where the staff always make him feel welcome .
i would have bought a coat there this winter if i could have found one that did not look as though i was wearing a tent , and £ 200 at that .
i hope they sort themselves out and come back soon .
the cost of eurostar will have be added to my food bill .
john , france the problem with m & s is that they no longer do what they are good at - providing classic , high quality fashions at a reasonable price .
h grotius , uk as long as m & s is committed to a policy of arrogance , people will not buy from m & s. in my opinion they are another rip .
bodipala wijeyesinghe , uk if they sack anyone they should start with the accountants stephen j whitworth , philippines i have shopped at m & s regularly twice a year at least during visits back to the uk , and since they have changed to getting the majority of their clothing from outside the uk the quality of their clothing has gone down .
two years ago the headlines were " m & s only make a billion pounds profit " , or similar .
is n't the point that vast profit margins -lrb- that seem to be required by uk companies -rrb- on clothes are going down .
the accountants persuaded the company to try and get the same profit margins out of clothes .
impossible nowadays , the margins on clothing are coming down everywhere and there are less and less developing countries keen to get in on this business .
the successes of m & s have been on food , and recently in home goods .
applying the same quality control procedures to other product areas is the strength of m & s. i shop there -lrb- or did -rrb- to get good quality everyday clothes that last a long time and were invariably always made in the uk .
i would be happy to buy many other products on the same basis .
the m & s brand is not slick but it was always reliable .
if they sack anyone they should start with the accountants or marketing or management consultants that came up with such a strategy .
m & s does not stand for anything now in the uk except the quest for high profit .
stephen j whitworth , philippines m & s is a multi-hundred million pound profit making business and is what might be called , if your feeling only slightly generous , a decent employer and a fair retailer , when you consider the proportion of people in this country on the payroll and the quality of goods found within .
what is however more important given that the business makes money and employs a good deal of people who in turn pay good organised taxes is what the hell is going on ?
the company are turning their backs on a direct catalogue market when competitors are throwing more money at it , why could this be ?
the cynics among us , of which i am one , would claim that with the incentive deals offered to the " new team " who incidentally are n't so new and have certainly been there long enough to shoulder some blame , are on dividend linked salaries and what better way to move the share price than to begin their cowardice dismantling of a great profit making business and a national institution than to make 5,000 people out of a job and ask us all to go back in time to the penny bazaars !
i know for a fact that that their new catalogue for summer which is now going to be destroyed cost over £ 1 million pound to produce !
who is accountable for that then we should ask , while 700 - 1000 people join the unemployed in the uk and a further 4,000 in mainland europe all go without work .
something is clearly not right about this and it smacks of personal greed , does n't anyone else care !
paul o , england ok , you have got to turn the company around in a year - so let 's take a sledgehammer to the areas that are really doing well .
you are making your biggest mistake yet , m & s. having lived in paris for two years , i remember how , every time i visited boulevard haussman m & s , it was filled with customers throughout .
and half of english speaking switzerland travel to the strasbourg m & s on a regular basis !
drop the sledgehammer , analyse france and the rest carefully , and do n't throw away the profit earning stores .
dee g , switzerland m & s are and always were middle of the road .
a good place for underwear , a plain pullover : anonymous , unseen , functional , moderate quality .
but evermore people can afford better and want to advertise it - that means less of a mass market in the middle ground .
david , england as a member of staff at m & s , i have seen the changes that the company has made and the commitment to quality that every member of staff has .
as a company we are all working hard to try and get back our unquestionable reputation for quality service value and innovation .
although we have problems and we accept that our clothes appeal is n't always good , we would have a task which is a lot easier if the media did not enjoy kicking a company when it is down , if you have n't been to m & s in a while , go back i am sure you will see a change .
staff member marks and spencer , uk marks et spencer : they failed to move with the times , and , just like the dinosaurs , though they were once the kings of retailing , they will die out .
c 'est la vie , c 'est le mort !
eric moncheray , uk / france everyone i know who shops at m & s here in brussels , goes there for the food .
m & s should focus on that part of their business abroad and drop the clothing that has way too many competitors .
colin o 'brien , belgium in the leadership 's attempt to become trendy their products became shoddy , and their customers have left them in droves john gant , uk marks & spencer is similar to rover and the conservative party .
they had a solid group of faithful followers who liked their products .
but in the leadership 's attempt to become trendy and cater for fringe minority interests their products became shoddy , and their customers have left them in droves : probably never to return .
john gant , uk as a member of m & s staff for 12 years , i have seen the company on the way up , at the peak and then come crashing down .
there certainly was an atmosphere of arrogance in management 5 years ago , and this coupled with the petty bickering at board level is in my opinion what led to our downfall .
we lost focus and paid the price .
to those who would criticise m & s for sourcing more products from overseas : you have to realise this came as a direct response to customers saying that we were overpriced .
the fact is that some of the british suppliers were simply not competitive enough .
nobody complains about other high street stores who do n't buy british , probably because they never have .
it was regrettable but i believe necessary to enable us to compete .
daniel white , bristol , uk large scale retailing has always been a very difficult industry to stay in because " the formula " eventually becomes self-destructing .
the bigger you are , the more " quality " is offset with " price " , and maintaining the balance is extremely challenging .
today 's examples of success -lrb- walmart , for instance -rrb- , can just as easily become tomorrow 's failures .
m & s lasted as long as they did because they stuck with the " quality " side of the equation , as soon as they ventured into the " price " side , they were just another retailer .
mark m. newdick , usa / uk the food section at m & s paris was amazing , and i 'll be really sorry to see it go rahul s , france i 'm not a big clothes shopper , but the food section at m & s paris was amazing , and i 'll be really sorry to see it go .
it seems many people in paris would probably agree - it was always crowded there , and there really does n't seem to be any equivalent to it elsewhere .
i do hope they keep that going , even if they close up the clothes section : it seems silly to shut down something that 's doing well just because it 's not the company 's traditional line of business .
rahul s , france the impression is of attempts at cost cutting jon g , uk m & s have treated the uk textile industry disgracefully in recent years when their decline has been entirely due to m & s management decisions .
they should provide quality , variety and promote uk manufacturing .
the food is not as good as it used to be either .
the impression is of attempts at cost cutting .
m & s customers would be prepared to pay to keep the quality .
jon g , uk it is a shame that m & s is closing their stores in continental europe , i am one of the people who will lose their job , i have been working for m & s for nine years and i can not understand this decision .
i give m & s two years in the uk and then it also over and out for them because of the lack of thought by management .
thanks mr luc van der velde !
mirella joëls , netherlands m & s need to remember where their prime market is michael bruce , uk m & s need to remember where their prime market is - people with more than average money to spend , on produce which is more than average quality .
m & s do this very successfully in the food halls , they used to do it with the clothes .
now i buy most of my clothes from selfridges .
michael bruce , uk i wonder if you are going to send these comments to marks and spencer bosses ?
they should see what " their " public think of them - but , will they act on it or just continue in their complacency ?
larraine , cyprus the most probable reason for the empty m & s stores in singapore is high cost and uncaring staff .
enter any other clothes retailer of a similar category and you are welcomed by friendly assistants and the prices are reasonable .
it is obvious that m & s in singapore and elsewhere is out of touch and does not understand the market .
loyal customers have been betrayed by poor management and complacency .
adam james , singapore they failed to see the emergence of a sophisticated customer who expected a shopping experience john stephenson , uk i was a graduate trainee with m & s - yes the training was fantastic , but even 10 years ago the arrogance and complacency of the company was astounding .
in fact as a new employee , that was the most astonishing thing .
they looked down on all competition as inferior and expected the customer to take what they were given .
they failed to see the emergence of a sophisticated customer who expected a shopping experience while shopping , rather than the dull , dated stores they continue to provide .
in fact their flagship glasgow store is a disaster even after years of renovation .
when once the mantra of " quality , value , service " might have meant something to the company , over the last 5 years this has gone .
the quality of the clothing - in terms of cloth , style and finishing - is deplorable , the clothes are overpriced , and the customer service is now shoddy .
if they are ever to get back on their feet again -lrb- and i doubt they will ever regain what they had -rrb- they will have to concentrate on rebuilding their quality , value and service .
john stephenson , uk having lived in the uk for several years , it took me a while before i would shop at m & s because in the early 90 's , the shop seemed to be filled with old fashioned clothing .
a few years later , it made great strides at having more up to date styles .
the food hall i thought was great but it was very expensive .
most everything in uk is so ridiculously overpriced and wages so low it really does surprise me how m & s could be in such trouble .
i look back now and i wonder how i managed as well as many of my hard working friends and family .
kelly , usa m & s used to be where everyone shopped , and where one bought quality goods made by british manufactures like daks or coats viyella .
the fabrics were innovative , the quality excellent , the clothes were practical and catered for a variety of shapes , tastes and pockets .
those days are long past .
the clothes are now tacky , cheap and shoddy -lrb- and that includes the autograph designer ranges -rrb- .
i shop elsewhere and so does everyone else .
marina donald , scotland if m & s starts to give the customers what they want , sure it will recover simon cameron , uk if m & s starts to give the customers what they want , sure it will recover .
price , quality , product range , product appeal and marketing strategies are the key determinants of the success of any business enterprise .
i run a retail business myself .
i have found that sales respond readily to even minor trading adjustments , provided they are well thought out .
free offers , give-aways and other such promotional ' gimmicks ' are often unexpectedly effective .
simon cameron , uk the slow demise of m & s really does n't surprise me .
as a transplanted brit , we were delighted when m & s came to canada - except they stubbornly refused to adapt to a different market -talk about boring !
we predicted their failure - and it happened !
john dean , canada get back on track with your core , quality , well-priced goods and you 'll have a winner again ann thornton , new zealand i feel very sad at what 's happening at m & s. my first job was with m & s at their ho way back in the 70 's and the standards they instilled then i still use today .
get back on track with your core , quality , well-priced goods and you 'll have a winner again .
ann thornton , new zealand i am desperate to see an m & s in florida .
the food section is unmatched in this country .
i know m & s would make big money here .
colin felton , usa oh please , the simple problem with marks and spencers is glaringly obvious .
walk into the shop and just look , do you see any colour .
no its beige , grey and black .
to survive they need to diverse their product range , appeal to a wider customer base , promote their financial services with a passion like tesco has done with its personal finance range introduce a loyalty card even and dare i say it start to look at out of town developments and develop new store formats for different circumstances .
as anne robinson might say you have to be ruthless to be rich !
mike burns , inverness , scotland hear !
hear !
m & s are entirely the authors of their own misfortune .
they abandoned the quality products which their long-term loyal customers relied on .
ditched their uk manufacturing workers , and replaced everything with shoddy , tacky stuff instead .
over the past few years i have written to their buyers several times about this and basically got the brush off .
they did n't want to listen to us - the customers and what we wanted , so now their paying the price .
it 's just a pity that their hard-working loyal employees will have to pay the price for their management 's mis-management .
susan , usa -lrb- formerly uk -rrb- as a staff member , i would encourage everyone to leave their idea of " dull and boring " at home and shop with an unbiased attitude .
with stock changing all the time , why not look at the new styles ?
they 're not as bad as you seem to think !
i think the media is too harsh on m & s - this is what makes our customers stay away , and it does n't do much for uk staff morale .
would you like to be described as " failing " and having " lost your spark " ?
david j , scotland m & s have only themselves to blame for any decline in sales lately jennifer , uk m & s have only themselves to blame for any decline in sales lately .
they have tried to ' re-vamp ' themselves when , in fact , all they have done is attempted to copy the dozens of clothing shops for the young and trendy - and failed .
there are plenty of places for those who like the latest styles - we do n't need m & s to join in too .
but sadly quality is being replaced by cheap tacky imports all over the high street .
jennifer , uk in hong kong , m & s 's clothing is too " traditional " for working ladies under 40 .
this group possesses strong buying power and considers m & s 's clothing too classic in our society .
so the lack of marketing sense is probably the cause of m & s failure in hong kong market .
angel ma , hong kong sar , china i stopped buying m & s clothes once i saw most of my peers wearing m & s clothes .
who wants to wear the same suit and tie as your work mates ?
mark adams , uk m & s was not challenged for over a decade and became complacent .
it is now being challenged from all sides and does n't have the ability to respond .
after three years of constant restructuring it lacks focus and the customers have moved on .
it will recover , but i doubt it will ever resurrect the glory days of old !
peter sewell , uk the only credibility the current m & s brand has is in the food sector ian , uk given that m & s has lost the plot in the clothing market , why does n't it just concentrate on what it 's good at - i.e. quality food products ?
tesco , sainsbury 's and waitrose have tried to emulate m & s with their ' finest ' ranges etc . , but for the most part , they have failed to match m & s in this niche market .
in my view , the only credibility the current m & s brand has is in the food sector .
ian , uk m & s needs a serious image overhaul .
flogging its shops is a good start - the layouts are awful and the staff miserable with rubbish service .
get its share price up in a falling market and the subsequent excitement may filter out into retail sales .
richard n , uk i 'd grown up with marks & sparks so when i moved to hong kong for 9 years i was pleased to find them there .
they were the only store in hong kong that stocked my size at affordable prices .
the hong kong stores are doing tremendously well so it is surprising to hear that they are being franchised .
they are certainly filling a niche in the hk market .
why ca n't management look to those stores to discover the reason for their success and adapt it to the uk or elsewhere ?
jacqui miller , canada closing their european stores is a remarkably short-sighted move if the extremely busy trade in their paris stores is anything to go by ; and the stores are very popular with the locals - certainly not just ex-pats in search of the odd scone !
a. miranda , france as an uk expatriate in belgium , i have a different perspective on m & s - it provides a taste of home on the continent , and a welcome one at that .
it can also be a lifesaver - i think it 's the only store in the netherlands that has soft loo roll !
christian j. defeo , belgium i thought my day had started badly enough having to deal with yet another train strike here in paris but i could n't believe the m & s european / rest of the world closures news !
alison darby , france i thought my day had started badly enough having to deal with yet another train strike here in paris but i could n't believe the m & s european / rest of the world closures news !
i 'm shell-shocked .
m & s is one of the few accessible places to purchase non-french wine , such are the protectionist attitudes not to mention " foreign dishes " of quality none too accessible in french supermarkets over here unlike the uk !
alison darby , france i think m & s is very good high quality shop .
the food is really nice and the cloths are starting to get nicer .
so i think in a few years m & s will be back on top .
william dryden , uk at one time when you went to an m & s store you were met with well cut clothes of excellent quality .
no longer i think quality is really where it has gone pear shaped , especially as their prices have gone up & up .
at one time they were big fish in a small pond but longer - the pond is now huge .
gillian , united kingdom it really is time that m & s went back to their old ways and realise that their customers are the ones that pay their wages , we do now expect our complaints to be listened to and respected and a little of the now old-fashioned good manners .
style and quality would be much appreciated .
v bartholomew , uk i think m & s lost the plot some time ago .
i had 2 lovely m & s polo-neck pullovers , the kind of classic clothing which you can find in most wardrobes .
i wore them out and went back for 2 more .
sorry , we do n't make those any more .
when we boring men , who are not slaves to fashion find something we like , we want to replace it with something exactly the same .
michael , uk m & s is just another example of a business taking its customers for granted for so many years jamie crampton , uk m & s is just another example of a business taking its customers for granted for so many years and then hitting the panic button , i.e. shedding staff , to cover up for poor management quality .
these people are on salaries most of us can only dream about , yet time after time the only solution they can come up with to cover themselves is to shed staff , usually at customer level .
jamie crampton , uk if the uk media would just stop beating them while they are down they might have a better chance !
k. jackson , usa ex uk high street culture has changed and m & s just needs to get it 's stores and lines up to date .
however , quality should continue to be the first priority for all it 's products - that 's what made m & s in the first place , and it 'll break them if they lose it .
richard , uk m & s lost my family 's support when it chose to turn its back on british suppliers for its clothing .
the present lines look rather tacky , and pseudo-trendy .
i also hear many people complaining that m & s garments no longer fit properly .
if m & s started asking what their customers really want , then they might see a turn-round in their fortunes .
i 've written to them on a number of occasions bewailing their purchasing decisions and absence of stock essential items , but any reply i 've received has not given the impression that m & s management is prepared to respond to the views of its customers .
k. roden , great britain ... and could somebody please tell their staff to cheer up ?
gillian white , scotland i used to buy practically all of my cloths in m & s , but have not been inside a store for nearly a year .
who are they aiming their clothes at ?
customers who once relied on them to provide comfortable clothes with a good fit appear to have been ditched in favour of the trendy brigade .
m & s no longer has a niche - their clothes are too common to be really desirable , but too expensive to be mass market .
and could somebody please tell their staff to cheer up ?
gillian white , scotland i would like to suggest one easy fix solution to the m & s crisis but one that is a fundamental issue to many of its shoppers - put the price back on the clothes tickets ! !
i am personally frustrated by having to seek out the price label markers from behind the racks of clothes and never being quite sure if it is the right marker .
this has led me to walk out without making a purchase on many occasions .
when will the powers that be recognise that an initiative intended to reduce costs has actually reduced sales and reverse this policy ?
liz phelps , uk m & s will never recover as long as it continues to manufacture clothes cheaply overseas graham southorn , uk m & s will never recover as long as it continues to manufacture clothes cheaply overseas .
they are shoddy quality and yet we pay the same prices as when they were made in the uk .
m & s has forgotten that quality counts .
instead it has followed other designer brands - unfortunately for m & s its name does not have the same " cachet " and it has deservedly come unstuck .
graham southorn , uk i think that m & s has improved greatly over the past few years - i would never have considered shopping for clothes there until recently , as they are certainly more stylish and up to date now .
i shop in m & s more than ever now and my local store is never quiet .
perhaps it is a case of bad press causing some customers to stay away and not realising that the stores have made great improvements .
alan sanderson , scotland it will be interesting to see what changes will occur through the latest store refurbishment 's .
i ca n't see how retrenchment to concentrate on " classic styles " and the " core customer " will make the brand any less boring in the eyes of consumers than it has been in recent years .
andy millward , uk jack of all trades , master of none .
ajay , uk m & s simply can not compete with the nike 's and adidas 's of today 's corporate world .
nor has it found a definite niche for itself , desperately trying to cater to all groups .
jack of all trades , master of none .
ajay , uk of course they can recover .
all they have to do is offer what people want .
i 'm a boring middle-aged engineer who has always bought shirts and underwear from m & s and the only reason i have n't replaced anything recently is that the last stuff i bought was so good it has n't worn out yet , but when it does , i 'll be back -lrb- if they 're still there -rrb- .
and as the age-ing section of the population gets larger there 's no reason they ca n't continue to sell sensibly designed well made products to it .
p , uk m & s should concentrate on what they are good at .
their food halls are the finest .
they should open smaller branches around the country .
carol a partington , uk marks & spencers were arrogant enough to believe that sensible pullovers and tweed would always be desired on the high street .
however times change and consumers of today are much more sophisticated .
we seek variety , convenience and of course , competitive pricing .
m & s is none of these , refusing to revamp themselves along with other retailers in the early part of the 1990s by offering greater choice , payment via credit cards and affordable goods .
this i feel , is too little too late , i for one , have no further need for argyle sweaters .
rebecca southwell , uk for what it 's worth i still buy clothes from m & s. although perhaps not the most " fashionable " outlet , the prices are reasonable and for the most part the products are well made .
i 'd rather pay less for fair quality than pay over the odds for an over-rated " designer " name , especially since everybody and their dog seems to be a " designer " these days .
john b , uk internet links : internet links : marks & spencer -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- talking point contents : forum -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- arts -pipe- hugo estate sues over sequel low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : entertainment : arts front page world uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment showbiz music film arts tv and radio new media reviews talking point in depth audiovideo wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 08:09 gmt 09:09 uk hugo estate sues over sequel the french revolution is the backdrop to hugo 's classic descendants of victor hugo are to go to court on 27 june to try to stop the publication of a sequel to his classic novel les miserables , source of the world-beating musical .
the publisher of cosette , or the time of illusions , is being sued in paris by hugo 's great-great-grandson pierre hugo for £ 425,000 in damages .
it is not a sequel , but instead a rewriting pierre hugo pierre hugo says that francois ceresa 's sequel is a betrayal of the french classic and a violation of intellectual property rights .
what has most angered hugo 's descendants is the change to the book 's original ending , where javert , who has furiously pursued jean valjean for violating his parole , jumps in the seine .
they maintain that hugo was particularly attached to his ending , and wrote : " if this ending is not moving , i will never write again . "
' violation ' " it is not a sequel , but instead a rewriting of the lives of the characters of victor hugo , " says the legal complaint by pierre hugo .
ceresa plans a further instalment in the autumn the complaint alleges that the novel " represents a pure commercial order based on the violation of the respect for victor hugo 's work " .
but ceresa 's sequel has its defenders .
on tuesday the french newspaper liberation carried a defence by writer antoine audouard under the headline " long live the pillage of les miserables " .
" the history of literature is full of sequels , of reprises and borrowing , " wrote audouard , " from one period to another , from one theme to another . "
lauretta hugo , the wife of hugo 's great-grandson , jean , and her five children have sent letters of protest to french president jacques chirac and to the ministers of culture and education .
" can one imagine commissioning the 10th symphony of beethoven ? " they asked in an open letter to liberation last week .
author ceresa said he finds the controversy unfair , pointing out that that les miserables has also been retold and adapted many times before - such as in the long-running musical on broadway and in london .
and despite the impending court case , ceresa 's publisher plon plans to release ceresa 's second installment , marius , or the fugitive , this autumn .
search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide see also : 02 may 01 -pipe- arts furore over ' les mis ii ' 17 may 01 -pipe- arts media giants back wind parody 19 apr 01 -pipe- arts gone with the wind copyright fight 22 apr 01 -pipe- arts a hunchback for all seasons 26 jan 00 -pipe- entertainment musical limbers up in cannes top arts stories now : egypt reclaims stolen antiquities record numbers at da vinci exhibition wartime bomb found at bolshoi poetry prize shortlist unveiled sculpture of queen for jubilee princeton offers sculpture return turners return home blood sculpture ' melted ' links to more arts stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more arts stories in this section egypt reclaims stolen antiquities record numbers at da vinci exhibition wartime bomb found at bolshoi poetry prize shortlist unveiled sculpture of queen for jubilee princeton offers sculpture return turners return home blood sculpture ' melted ' fake harry potter novel hits china kandinsky painting row settled artist 's work saved for nation singer catches fire at royal opera chirac wins dumas ashes wrangle bell tolls for ' hunchback ' title star pair to tread london boards berkoff deported from us ' anti-semitic ' book sells out strike hits exhibition launch ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- media reports -pipe- human touch at russian jail front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- bbc news online : world : monitoring : media reports wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 08:43 gmt 09:43 uk human touch at russian jail the saratov region of southern russia has introduced a human rights officer to mediate between inmates at local penal colonies and the authorities .
when russian public tv visited the colony at engels it met prison teacher yury borisov , now the " authorized human rights representative " , whose work is unique in the russian prison system .
helping hand mr borisov , who has been occupying the post on an entirely voluntary basis for six months , says he has been welcomed by the prisoners as a third party who can perhaps help with their problems .
" i am not a military man in a uniform , " he says .
" therefore there is a completely different attitude to me .
i am trusted more . "
in one case , he helped gain more lenient treatment for a young convict who had married while serving his sentence , but often he is valued just as someone who lends an ear to prisoners ' concerns .
" sometimes they just need to talk about it , " he says .
" they do n't have a problem .
they just need to talk about something .
they just need human sympathy .
we talk to the person , pat him on the shoulder and that is sufficient .
if you just have a word with the convicts , say ' hi lads , how 's things ? ' , this is just a question of attitude , and it boosts their morale . "
keeping the peace the prison authorities are very well disposed towards mr borisov , seeing in him a safety valve for avoiding open conflicts with the inmates .
as the tv reports , disputes between prisoners and guards have been rare since he began his new job , but when they do arise he does his best to resolve them peacefully .
as part of the confidence-building measures , special post boxes are placed all over prison compounds for inmates to write to mr borisov .
the authorities do not have the right to open the letters .
" that is a strict rule , just as the staff of the penal system can not interfere in the human rights champion 's activities , " the tv notes .
the future outside the greatest concern voiced by prisoners is what will happen to them once they finish their sentence .
another human rights activist in saratov , alexander lando , explains that many prisoners have no id papers and find it virtually impossible to get new ones once outside .
new conflicts with the law are inevitable .
" if they are not registered at an address , they ca n't get a job , " he says .
" because they do not have id , they keep being stopped .
the prison certificate that they have with them is insufficient . "
so now mr borisov and mr lando are actively campaigning to ensure that all prisoners get id papers before they return to the outside world .
bbc monitoring , based in caversham in southern england , selects and translates information from radio , television , press , news agencies and the internet from 150 countries in more than 70 languages .
related to this story : russia 's reputation still stained by human rights -lrb- 10 dec 98 -pipe- 50th anniversary declaration of human rights -rrb- russian prisons free tb menace -lrb- 05 dec 98 -pipe- europe -rrb- internet links : russian public tv -lrb- in russian -rrb- -pipe- saratov region 's official web site -lrb- in russian -rrb- -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- media reports -pipe- human touch at russian jail low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : world : monitoring : media reports front page world africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia - from our own correspondent - letter from america uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 08:43 gmt 09:43 uk human touch at russian jail russian prisons are notorious for their harshness the saratov region of southern russia has introduced a human rights officer to mediate between inmates at local penal colonies and the authorities .
when russian public tv visited the colony at engels it met prison teacher yury borisov , now the " authorized human rights representative " , whose work is unique in the russian prison system .
helping hand mr borisov , who has been occupying the post on an entirely voluntary basis for six months , says he has been welcomed by the prisoners as a third party who can perhaps help with their problems .
sergey married sasha when he was already inside " i am not a military man in a uniform , " he says .
" therefore there is a completely different attitude to me .
i am trusted more . "
in one case , he helped gain more lenient treatment for a young convict who had married while serving his sentence , but often he is valued just as someone who lends an ear to prisoners ' concerns .
" sometimes they just need to talk about it , " he says .
" they do n't have a problem .
they just need to talk about something .
they just need human sympathy .
we talk to the person , pat him on the shoulder and that is sufficient .
if you just have a word with the convicts , say ' hi lads , how 's things ? ' , this is just a question of attitude , and it boosts their morale . "
keeping the peace the prison authorities are very well disposed towards mr borisov , seeing in him a safety valve for avoiding open conflicts with the inmates .
as the tv reports , disputes between prisoners and guards have been rare since he began his new job , but when they do arise he does his best to resolve them peacefully .
the confidential postboxes are specially sealed as part of the confidence-building measures , special post boxes are placed all over prison compounds for inmates to write to mr borisov .
the authorities do not have the right to open the letters .
" that is a strict rule , just as the staff of the penal system can not interfere in the human rights champion 's activities , " the tv notes .
the future outside the greatest concern voiced by prisoners is what will happen to them once they finish their sentence .
another human rights activist in saratov , alexander lando , explains that many prisoners have no id papers and find it virtually impossible to get new ones once outside .
new conflicts with the law are inevitable .
mr borisov has helped prisoners with problems at home " if they are not registered at an address , they ca n't get a job , " he says .
" because they do not have id , they keep being stopped .
the prison certificate that they have with them is insufficient . "
so now mr borisov and mr lando are actively campaigning to ensure that all prisoners get id papers before they return to the outside world .
bbc monitoring , based in caversham in southern england , selects and translates information from radio , television , press , news agencies and the internet from 150 countries in more than 70 languages .
search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide see also : 10 dec 98 -pipe- 50th anniversary declaration of human rights russia 's reputation still stained by human rights 05 dec 98 -pipe- europe russian prisons free tb menace internet links : russian public tv -lrb- in russian -rrb- saratov region 's official web site -lrb- in russian -rrb- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top media reports stories now : brazil ecstatic at world cup triumph testing times for slovak politics russia 's scientists demand a living mid-east press sees sharon victory putin faces the media pakistani press fears new trend arab press downbeat on bush french press aghast at ' apocalypse now ' links to more media reports stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more media reports stories in this section brazil ecstatic at world cup triumph testing times for slovak politics russia 's scientists demand a living mid-east press sees sharon victory putin faces the media pakistani press fears new trend arab press downbeat on bush french press aghast at ' apocalypse now ' press cries for argentina argentine press rue england defeat pakistan and india ponder armitage visit afghanistan 's loya jirga belarus suffers world cup blackout opinion split on ' flawed hero ' cronje indian papers see glimmer of hope guide to algeria elections russian papers on nato developments uproar over iran 's media ban regional media views afghan killing ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- big majority for uk rate cut low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : business front page world uk uk politics business market data economy companies e-commerce your money business basics sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 09:00 gmt 10:00 uk big majority for uk rate cut bank of england : scope for further cuts ?
the bank of england 's monetary policy committee -lrb- mpc -rrb- earlier this month voted eight-to-one to trim interest rates 0.25 % , minutes from the meeting have showed .
the only dissenting mpc member , sushil wadhwani , wanted a deeper 0.5 % cut .
the move to lower rates to 5.25 % had been widely expected and was supported by most economists , who said there was little threat from inflation in the uk .
a clear vote in favour of cutting rates is usually interpreted as meaning the bank sees scope for further cuts in the coming months .
this will be good news for mortgage holders and homebuyers , who have already seen mortgage rates come down to levels not seen for about 40 years .
however , analysts said the uk 's rate setters are likely to resist another rate cut at their meeting next month .
resisting a june cut the mpc 's meeting comes on 5 and 6 june , just before the general election .
the analysts said any decision to change interest rates then could be viewed as politically motivated - a charge the bank would be keen to avoid .
this consideration might have encouraged some of the mpc 's more hawkish members to vote in favour of a cut in may , they said .
much of economy thriving the lower interest rates are intended to stimulate economic growth , amid worries that economic weakness in the united states could turn into a global downturn and hit the uk as well .
so far , most economic indicators suggest that much of the uk economy is thriving , although there is a slowdown in the manufacturing sector and figures earlier this week showed the trade deficit at a record high .
the us federal reserve has implemented five 0.5 % rate cuts this year , reducing rates to 4 % in an attempt to keep the world 's biggest economy out of recession .
the minutes from the mpc 's 9-10 may meeting revealed that the bank of england viewed the outlook for the us economy as having weakened further in the previous month .
however , it believed a series of smaller rate cuts in the uk would have greater effect than a single larger cut , which risked damaging confidence by indicating the domestic economy was in worse shape than previously thought .
" the better course was to move in small steps , cutting again if either domestic or international news were to justify that in due course , " the minutes said .
search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide how healthy is uk plc ?
economic indicators economy edges forward jobless total falls house prices surge inflation slips lower manufacturing hopes retail boom falters analysis brown 's steady hand budget gamble ?
gordon 's next challenge uk rate decisions bank under fire hints of rate increase rates kept on hold see also : 21 may 01 -pipe- business uk trade deficit hits record high 16 may 01 -pipe- business uk inflation to remain low into 2002 15 may 01 -pipe- business can us rates go lower ? 05 apr 01 -pipe- business cbi expert joins interest rate committee 05 apr 01 -pipe- business who 's who at the mpc internet links : bank of england the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top business stories now : worldcom chiefs refuse to testify buoyant ebay snaps up bills firm digital tv woes hit pace profits bush vows action after scandals merck ' exaggerated ' revenue in accounts congress pushes accounting reform oil trade thaws us-russian ties hiv : the drug firms ' quest for a cure links to more business stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more business stories in this section worldcom chiefs refuse to testify buoyant ebay snaps up bills firm digital tv woes hit pace profits bush vows action after scandals merck ' exaggerated ' revenue in accounts congress pushes accounting reform oil trade thaws us-russian ties hiv : the drug firms ' quest for a cure uk business failures on the rise channel 4 boss warns of cuts babcock rescue talks fail standards officers to grill food industry israel ' okays el al sale ' irish snacks group shelves listing plans stock market funds under scrutiny car accelerates anti-corruption drive nepal boosts security spending bank of china to raise $ 3bn in share sale iraq and india ties warmed by oil deals zambia pleads for more donations kingfisher seals takeover of diy giant mobile phone giant denies pension risk bulmer 's profits fall flat scots business profits weaken wireless internet arrives in china profile : worldcom 's john sidgmore wales leads uk bust firms league chicago steals a lead on silicon valley profits plunge at alcoa uk factory gate prices flat cost cuts boost uk banks and insurers ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- big majority for uk rate cut front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- business contents : market data -pipe- economy -pipe- companies -pipe- e-commerce -pipe- your money -pipe- business basics -pipe- bbc news online : business wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 09:00 gmt 10:00 uk big majority for uk rate cut the bank of england 's monetary policy committee -lrb- mpc -rrb- earlier this month voted eight-to-one to trim interest rates 0.25 % , minutes from the meeting have showed .
the only dissenting mpc member , sushil wadhwani , wanted a deeper 0.5 % cut .
the move to lower rates to 5.25 % had been widely expected and was supported by most economists , who said there was little threat from inflation in the uk .
a clear vote in favour of cutting rates is usually interpreted as meaning the bank sees scope for further cuts in the coming months .
this will be good news for mortgage holders and homebuyers , who have already seen mortgage rates come down to levels not seen for about 40 years .
however , analysts said the uk 's rate setters are likely to resist another rate cut at their meeting next month .
resisting a june cut the mpc 's meeting comes on 5 and 6 june , just before the general election .
the analysts said any decision to change interest rates then could be viewed as politically motivated - a charge the bank would be keen to avoid .
this consideration might have encouraged some of the mpc 's more hawkish members to vote in favour of a cut in may , they said .
much of economy thriving the lower interest rates are intended to stimulate economic growth , amid worries that economic weakness in the united states could turn into a global downturn and hit the uk as well .
so far , most economic indicators suggest that much of the uk economy is thriving , although there is a slowdown in the manufacturing sector and figures earlier this week showed the trade deficit at a record high .
the us federal reserve has implemented five 0.5 % rate cuts this year , reducing rates to 4 % in an attempt to keep the world 's biggest economy out of recession .
the minutes from the mpc 's 9-10 may meeting revealed that the bank of england viewed the outlook for the us economy as having weakened further in the previous month .
however , it believed a series of smaller rate cuts in the uk would have greater effect than a single larger cut , which risked damaging confidence by indicating the domestic economy was in worse shape than previously thought .
" the better course was to move in small steps , cutting again if either domestic or international news were to justify that in due course , " the minutes said .
related to this story : uk trade deficit hits record high -lrb- 21 may 01 -pipe- business -rrb- uk inflation to remain low into 2002 -lrb- 16 may 01 -pipe- business -rrb- can us rates go lower ? -lrb- 15 may 01 -pipe- business -rrb- cbi expert joins interest rate committee -lrb- 05 apr 01 -pipe- business -rrb- who 's who at the mpc -lrb- 05 apr 01 -pipe- business -rrb- internet links : bank of england -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- business contents : market data -pipe- economy -pipe- companies -pipe- e-commerce -pipe- your money -pipe- business basics -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- africa -pipe- six charged over mozambique murder front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- bbc news online : world : africa wednesday , 23 may , 2001 , 09:06 gmt 10:06 uk six charged over mozambique murder six people have been charged with the murder of a leading journalist in mozambique .
carlos cardoso , who was the founder and editor of the independent newspaper metical , was shot dead in maputo in november last year , when gunmen shot him dead after forcing his car to stop .
mr cardoso had been writing extensively about a massive bank fraud , in which $ 14m was siphoned out of the commercial bank of mozambique in 1996 just before it was privatised .
the case has never been brought to court - and mr cardoso highlighted corruption in the attorney-general 's office as being to blame .
prominent businessman ayob abdul satar and former bank manager vicente ramaya have been charged with contracting the killing .
four men have been charged with carrying it out .
cardoso in 25 years as a reporter , mr cardoso gained a reputation as a crusading journalist .
both main political parties in mozmbique paid fulsome tribute to mr cardoso when he was killed president joaquim chissano described his murder as " a very tragic death ... committed by people who did not realise this man 's huge contribution to the country " .
afonso dhlakama , leader of the opposition renamo party , was no less generous in his praise .
he said mozambique had lost " a very serious journalist who always confronted facts " .
related to this story : journalist 's funeral in mozambique -lrb- 24 nov 00 -pipe- africa -rrb- mozambican journalist mourned -lrb- 24 nov 00 -pipe- africa -rrb- top mozambican journalist murdered -lrb- 23 nov 00 -pipe- africa -rrb- internet links : metical -pipe- african studies : mozambique -pipe- mozambique news agency -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
