bbc news -pipe- middle east -pipe- arabs to discuss boycott of israel categories tv radio communicate where i live index search you are in : world : middle east front page world africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia - from our own correspondent - letter from america uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo services daily e-mail news ticker mobiles / pdas feedback help low graphics sunday , 29 july , 2001 , 04:00 gmt 05:00 uk arabs to discuss boycott of israel representatives of arab countries are meeting later on sunday in the syrian capital , damascus , to discuss how to revive the boycott of israel .
the two-day meeting has been called by a damascus-based organisation , the central office of the boycott of israel .
a spokesman for the organisation said the meeting would discuss a report which proposes ways and means of reactivating the boycott of israel after the collapse of the middle east peace negotiations .
correspondents say syria has been pushing for a tougher arab line against the israeli government of prime minister , ariel sharon .
the central office of the boycott of israel was set up nearly fifty years ago by the arab league with the aim of isolating israel economically .
but most arab countries softened their stance after the gulf war ten years ago and the launch of the middle east peace process .
from the newsroom of the bbc world service top middle east stories now : israel reopens talks with palestinians arab ban proposed in jewish areas iran court slaps ban on dancer israel ' okays el al sale ' new palestinian constitution in force egypt spy chief on mid-east mission palestinian sacking sparks more protests egypt reclaims stolen antiquities links to more middle east stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more middle east stories in this section israel reopens talks with palestinians arab ban proposed in jewish areas iran court slaps ban on dancer israel ' okays el al sale ' new palestinian constitution in force egypt spy chief on mid-east mission palestinian sacking sparks more protests egypt reclaims stolen antiquities iraq and india ties warmed by oil deals straw defends arms sales change ' meteor ' caused israeli plane alert britain ' sheltering al-qaeda leader ' hundreds mourn la airport victims five killed by militants in algeria jordan denies us iraq reports in pictures : life under curfew farrakhan in baghdad to avert war ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- middle east -pipe- arabs to discuss boycott of israel high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- bbc news online : world : middle east sunday , 29 july , 2001 , 04:00 gmt 05:00 uk arabs to discuss boycott of israel representatives of arab countries are meeting later on sunday in the syrian capital , damascus , to discuss how to revive the boycott of israel .
the two-day meeting has been called by a damascus-based organisation , the central office of the boycott of israel .
a spokesman for the organisation said the meeting would discuss a report which proposes ways and means of reactivating the boycott of israel after the collapse of the middle east peace negotiations .
correspondents say syria has been pushing for a tougher arab line against the israeli government of prime minister , ariel sharon .
the central office of the boycott of israel was set up nearly fifty years ago by the arab league with the aim of isolating israel economically .
but most arab countries softened their stance after the gulf war ten years ago and the launch of the middle east peace process .
from the newsroom of the bbc world service high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- child prostitution crisis low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : uk front page world uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo the bbc 's angus stickler " children as young as nine are being recruited into prostitution on the streets of britain " real 56k sunday , 29 july , 2001 , 06:01 gmt 07:01 uk child prostitution crisis police are unable to keep track of number of children involved by bbc radio 5live 's angus stickler an investigation for 5live has found that child prostitution is in danger of spiralling out of control .
according to both the police and child care agencies , hundreds of children around britain are being lured into the world of paid-sex .
they admit they are unable to keep track of the number of children involved , but both warn that sophisticated networks involving children of both sexes are being set up by ruthless criminals .
in rotherham alone for example , 80 girls are said to be working as prostitutes .
and experts say prostitution is rife in every major town and city .
it 's our problem , it 's on our doorstep and we need to do something about it mark leigh , barnardo 's mark leigh of barnardo 's runs a project working with rent boys at london bridge .
he said : " i think that the sexual exploitation of children is actually spiralling out of control as we speak .
" of course child sex exploitation goes on in the developing world .
" it goes on in bangkok but it 's also happening in birmingham and bristol and brixton .
" it 's our problem , it 's on our doorstep and we need to do something about it . "
one rent boy told me that he started selling sex at nine-years-old .
street dangers the man who abused him gave him a bag of five pence pieces .
by the age of 13 he was being shared around between a group of men .
another girl describes the dangers of living on the streets .
she was just 12 when she started running away from home .
she said : " a man approached me one time ...
i did n't want to do him and the geezer had me up by the throat threatening to kill me , i was actually really scared , i did n't know whether he was going to knock me out or do what .
" they could just stab you , they could take you down an alley , they could rape you , then kill you , they could do anything . "
drug abuse these children exist on the margins of society - they are extremely distrustful of the police and social services .
it has been described as a revolving door situation - the police hand them over to social services , but within hours they are often back on the street .
many are addicted to crack cocaine and they will do anything to feed their habit .
child prostitutes in fear for their lives but despite the difficulties in dealing with these children , local authorities in england and wales , charged with dealing with the problem , have been accused of dragging their heels .
responding to a bbc survey , only half of them were prepared to provide details of their plans , with one in four admitting that they had no formal plans in place .
in the absence of these guidelines , police and campaigners believe that more and more vulnerable children could be drawn into the child sex trade .
not only do the police have to deal with these children on the street , but also a more sinister scene of organised crime .
vulnerable targeted a team of officers at the metropolitan police clubs and vice squad spent months on a successful investigation into a pimp called maris malone , who was jailed for four years .
he was an extremely dangerous individual who targeted vulnerable young girls in the care system and then recruited and exploited them as prostitutes on the streets of central london .
the police linked him to 22 girls aged 12 to 18 .
inspector paul holmes explains : " he was extremely skilled at identifying disaffected , unhappy , vulnerable young teenage girls , most of whom where either already in the care system or on the brink of the care system .
" on a commercial basis , he recruited and exploited them as prostitutes on the streets of central london . "
bleak picture but of course many areas of the country do n't have the luxury of a vice squad .
in rotherham for example , it appears there is a highly organised network of pimps involving up to 80 girls , again some as young as 12 .
and there is evidence that they are being transported from rotherham to private addresses in red light districts as far afield as bradford and sheffield .
and this , campaigners say , is mirrored in other areas of the country .
children as young as 12 on the streets when you talk to the young people involved in child prostitution they paint a bleak picture .
they have often been failed by both their parents and the care system , leaving them marginalised and disaffected .
many are notoriously difficult to deal with .
critics argue that for many of the local authorities responsible for their care , bringing these children back from the brink is just too difficult and too expensive .
but as the authorities argue over resources , the pimps are quick to act .
this is the ruthless exploitation of children and the human cost of ignoring the problem leaves a legacy of shattered lives and innocence lost .
search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide see also : 30 jan 98 -pipe- uk child prostitution figures double 16 jul 98 -pipe- uk campaign to end child prostitution 09 sep 00 -pipe- scotland inquiry into child prostitution claims 29 jun 99 -pipe- uk child prostitution linked to abuse and drugs 21 may 00 -pipe- uk child prostitutes ' victims not criminals ' internet links : metropolitan police barnardo 's the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk stories now : postcode lottery in gp services leanne killer jailed for life tories attack brixton drugs scheme straw defends arms sales change ivf mix-up heads for court police shoot man on the m6 new challenge excites venables judge urges life sentence shake-up links to more uk stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more uk stories in this section postcode lottery in gp services leanne killer jailed for life tories attack brixton drugs scheme straw defends arms sales change ivf mix-up heads for court police shoot man on the m6 new challenge excites venables judge urges life sentence shake-up channel 4 boss warns of cuts inquiry into warship accident chicken checked for bse home collapses after council dig schoolboy ' murdered for £ 10 debt ' ' scout leader ' guilty of sex offences blair 's right-hand men under the spotlight parents to sue over epilepsy row parents ' court battle over mmr jab scots killed in alps fall margaret cook blasts ' nhs meddling ' drumcree violence ' unacceptable ' transplant first for cancer patient husband jailed for rape attack gm crop trial sites announced britain ' sheltering al-qaeda leader ' healthy eating in schools ' backfires ' political donation rules ' being broken ' soap actor killed in holiday fall church debates links with state troubled start to marching season link between poverty and truancy mobile phone giant denies pension risk clampdown on illegal food imports abortion plans ' irresponsible ' disabled pulled from burning minibus blunkett to review police reforms ' my mission with the uk marines ' facing up to life with hiv blame it on the driver phones , tones and mobile music amazing tales from planet tabloid the return of the seagulls does my bum look big in this boeing ?
quiz of the week 's news papers capture drumcree violence ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
