bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- us and kazakhstan sign oil deal categories tv radio communicate where i live index search you are in : world : asia-pacific front page world africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia - from our own correspondent - letter from america uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo services daily e-mail news ticker mobiles / pdas feedback help low graphics saturday , 22 december , 2001 , 05:16 gmt us and kazakhstan sign oil deal the united states and kazakhstan have signed an energy agreement aimed at boosting oil exports from the former soviet republic to the west .
the new deal was reached after talks in washington between president george w bush and his kazakh counterpart , nursultan nazarbayev .
correspondents say that the agreement will prompt the construction of a pipeline linking kazakh oil fields to western markets via turkey .
the project had been supported by the united states for a long time but opposed by russia .
from the newsroom of the bbc world service top asia-pacific stories now : blaze kills 42 in indonesian bar china vows to overhaul courts koreas trade fresh war of words philippines church apologises for sex abuse search for ' spy ' pilots in china chinese chemical spill kills 13 malaysian state passes islamic law vietnam 's unburied soldiers head home links to more asia-pacific stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more asia-pacific stories in this section blaze kills 42 in indonesian bar china vows to overhaul courts koreas trade fresh war of words philippines church apologises for sex abuse search for ' spy ' pilots in china chinese chemical spill kills 13 malaysian state passes islamic law vietnam 's unburied soldiers head home philippines storms kill 14 inquiry into warship accident breast advert ' unfit for the young ' bank of china to raise $ 3bn in share sale wireless internet arrives in china finance chiefs target terrorist cash hewitt on cloud nine woodbridge wins yet again campbell stumbles to victory japanese gets lost in translation warship accident was ' worst feeling ' australia 's new ' black pride ' ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- us and kazakhstan sign oil deal high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- bbc news online : world : asia-pacific saturday , 22 december , 2001 , 05:16 gmt us and kazakhstan sign oil deal the united states and kazakhstan have signed an energy agreement aimed at boosting oil exports from the former soviet republic to the west .
the new deal was reached after talks in washington between president george w bush and his kazakh counterpart , nursultan nazarbayev .
correspondents say that the agreement will prompt the construction of a pipeline linking kazakh oil fields to western markets via turkey .
the project had been supported by the united states for a long time but opposed by russia .
from the newsroom of the bbc world service high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- middle east -pipe- palestinians wait for israeli move high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- bbc news online : world : middle east saturday , 22 december , 2001 , 05:47 gmt palestinians wait for israeli move this is the worst intra-palestinian violence in years a senior palestinian representative , saeb erekat , says the next move towards halting the conflict in the region is now up to israel , after palestinian militants announced they were suspending attacks .
the ball is now in the israeli court to stop all acts of aggression saeb erekat mr erekat said israel could stop its selective attacks on militants and lift the blockade of palestinian areas .
six people were killed and over 60 wounded in gunbattles with palestinian police in the gaza strip on friday , as the militant group hamas said it was suspending attacks inside israel .
another radical group , islamic jihad , has said it too is considering suspending suicide attacks .
mr erekat spoke to israeli foreign minister shimon peres on friday evening and told him it was time for israel to return to the negotiating table .
crackdown the dead in gun battles at the refugee camp of jabaliya in northern gaza included a 14-year-old boy who died several hours after being shot .
correspondents say mr arafat 's crackdown on militants - forced on him by israel and the americans - has now led to the worst palestinian on palestinian violence in years .
israel has given a sceptical reaction to the hamas announcement , while the united states called for a halt to all violence and urged yasser arafat to take more action against militants .
" what 's positive ?
that they stop terror activities in one place , but keep murdering women and children somewhere else ? " said raanan gissin , a spokesman for prime minister ariel sharon .
intra-palestinian tensions the announcement came amid a fierce confrontation between islamic militants and palestinian police trying to arrest them .
the trouble started on thursday when police began arresting supporters of hamas , which has said it was responsible for the recent bombings in jerusalem and haifa that killed 25 israelis .
armed clashes erupted after the funeral of a palestinian youth shot dead in jabaliya on thursday .
they had broken out after palestinian police chased gunmen who had been trying to fire mortars at a jewish settlement on occupied palestinian land .
there was further trouble in central gaza , when about 400 hamas supporters attacked a police station where they believed hamas supporters were being held .
struggle continues the hamas statement , which came after leaders of the group met representatives of mr arafat , said : " we announce the stopping of all martyr operations in the palestinian territories occupied since 1948 and an end to all mortar shelling .
hamas founded 14 december 1987 , just after the the first intifada began an estimated 700-1,200 core members and tens of thousands of supporters labelled a " terrorist group " by the us and the eu does not recognise the right of israel to exist and wants an islamic state established " this decision is to protect our palestinian national union and to guard our way of struggle until we get our independence , although we know the israeli occupation and its aggression policy will continue . "
there is no suggestion of any halt to attacks on israeli targets in the west bank and gaza strip .
and the group 's armed wing has made clear that the truce will not hold if israel continues its controversial policy of killing hamas militants or if it attacks palestinian civilians .
the us white house spokesman , ari fleischer , said : " all terror activities everywhere must stop immediately .
ensuring this is chairman arafat 's responsibility .
" hamas is a terrorist organisation .
it remains chairman arafat 's responsibility to demonstrate that he does not want terrorism to be practiced in the middle east , " mr fleischer said .
related to this story : israeli tanks pull back -lrb- 20 dec 01 -pipe- middle east -rrb- hamas may end suicide attacks -lrb- 20 dec 01 -pipe- middle east -rrb- arafat pleads for talks with israel -lrb- 16 dec 01 -pipe- middle east -rrb- palestinian police shut out militants -lrb- 16 dec 01 -pipe- middle east -rrb- palestinian leader 's house raided -lrb- 13 dec 01 -pipe- middle east -rrb- palestinian radio hits back at israel -lrb- 13 dec 01 -pipe- media reports -rrb- us and eu to maintain arafat link -lrb- 13 dec 01 -pipe- middle east -rrb- arafat says sharon has him marked -lrb- 12 dec 01 -pipe- middle east -rrb- analysis : reasons for hamas truce call -lrb- 21 dec 01 -pipe- middle east -rrb- internet links : palestinian national authority -pipe- israeli foreign ministry -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- middle east -pipe- palestinians wait for israeli move categories tv radio communicate where i live index search you are in : world : middle east front page world africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia - from our own correspondent - letter from america uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo services daily e-mail news ticker mobiles / pdas feedback help low graphics saturday , 22 december , 2001 , 05:47 gmt palestinians wait for israeli move this is the worst intra-palestinian violence in years a senior palestinian representative , saeb erekat , says the next move towards halting the conflict in the region is now up to israel , after palestinian militants announced they were suspending attacks .
the ball is now in the israeli court to stop all acts of aggression saeb erekat mr erekat said israel could stop its selective attacks on militants and lift the blockade of palestinian areas .
six people were killed and over 60 wounded in gunbattles with palestinian police in the gaza strip on friday , as the militant group hamas said it was suspending attacks inside israel .
another radical group , islamic jihad , has said it too is considering suspending suicide attacks .
mr erekat spoke to israeli foreign minister shimon peres on friday evening and told him it was time for israel to return to the negotiating table .
crackdown the dead in gun battles at the refugee camp of jabaliya in northern gaza included a 14-year-old boy who died several hours after being shot .
palestinian police have closed down hamas offices correspondents say mr arafat 's crackdown on militants - forced on him by israel and the americans - has now led to the worst palestinian on palestinian violence in years .
israel has given a sceptical reaction to the hamas announcement , while the united states called for a halt to all violence and urged yasser arafat to take more action against militants .
" what 's positive ?
that they stop terror activities in one place , but keep murdering women and children somewhere else ? " said raanan gissin , a spokesman for prime minister ariel sharon .
intra-palestinian tensions the announcement came amid a fierce confrontation between islamic militants and palestinian police trying to arrest them .
the trouble started on thursday when police began arresting supporters of hamas , which has said it was responsible for the recent bombings in jerusalem and haifa that killed 25 israelis .
israeli troops have made incursions into palestinian areas armed clashes erupted after the funeral of a palestinian youth shot dead in jabaliya on thursday .
they had broken out after palestinian police chased gunmen who had been trying to fire mortars at a jewish settlement on occupied palestinian land .
there was further trouble in central gaza , when about 400 hamas supporters attacked a police station where they believed hamas supporters were being held .
struggle continues the hamas statement , which came after leaders of the group met representatives of mr arafat , said : " we announce the stopping of all martyr operations in the palestinian territories occupied since 1948 and an end to all mortar shelling .
hamas founded 14 december 1987 , just after the the first intifada began an estimated 700-1,200 core members and tens of thousands of supporters labelled a " terrorist group " by the us and the eu does not recognise the right of israel to exist and wants an islamic state established " this decision is to protect our palestinian national union and to guard our way of struggle until we get our independence , although we know the israeli occupation and its aggression policy will continue . "
there is no suggestion of any halt to attacks on israeli targets in the west bank and gaza strip .
and the group 's armed wing has made clear that the truce will not hold if israel continues its controversial policy of killing hamas militants or if it attacks palestinian civilians .
the us white house spokesman , ari fleischer , said : " all terror activities everywhere must stop immediately .
ensuring this is chairman arafat 's responsibility .
" hamas is a terrorist organisation .
it remains chairman arafat 's responsibility to demonstrate that he does not want terrorism to be practiced in the middle east , " mr fleischer said . watch / listen on this story the bbc 's jeremy cooke " there could still be attacks on the west bank or the gaza strip " israeli foreign ministry spokesperson yaffa ben ari " words have no meanings until they 've been transformed into actions " hamas spokesman mahmoud al-zahar " if the israeli aggression continues we are going to resume our activities " key stories palestinian disarray backing the bombers us demands distant hope arafat 's successors ?
eyewitness gazans kept apart teenagers in uniform a family divided us christians for israel background running palestine intifada q & a history of bomb blasts country profiles factfile voices from the conflict talking point what is the alternative to arafat ?
audio video tv and radio reports see also : 20 dec 01 -pipe- middle east israeli tanks pull back 20 dec 01 -pipe- middle east hamas may end suicide attacks 16 dec 01 -pipe- middle east arafat pleads for talks with israel 16 dec 01 -pipe- middle east palestinian police shut out militants 13 dec 01 -pipe- middle east palestinian leader 's house raided 13 dec 01 -pipe- media reports palestinian radio hits back at israel 13 dec 01 -pipe- middle east us and eu to maintain arafat link 12 dec 01 -pipe- middle east arafat says sharon has him marked 21 dec 01 -pipe- middle east analysis : reasons for hamas truce call internet links : palestinian national authority israeli foreign ministry the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top middle east stories now : israel reopens talks with palestinians arab ban proposed in jewish areas iran court slaps ban on dancer israel ' okays el al sale ' new palestinian constitution in force egypt spy chief on mid-east mission palestinian sacking sparks more protests egypt reclaims stolen antiquities links to more middle east stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more middle east stories in this section israel reopens talks with palestinians arab ban proposed in jewish areas iran court slaps ban on dancer israel ' okays el al sale ' new palestinian constitution in force egypt spy chief on mid-east mission palestinian sacking sparks more protests egypt reclaims stolen antiquities iraq and india ties warmed by oil deals straw defends arms sales change ' meteor ' caused israeli plane alert britain ' sheltering al-qaeda leader ' hundreds mourn la airport victims five killed by militants in algeria jordan denies us iraq reports in pictures : life under curfew farrakhan in baghdad to avert war ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- arts -pipe- big break diaries : the poet categories tv radio communicate where i live index search you are in : entertainment : arts front page world uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment showbiz music film arts tv and radio new media reviews talking point in depth audiovideo services daily e-mail news ticker mobiles / pdas feedback help low graphics saturday , 22 december , 2001 , 07:59 gmt big break diaries : the poet bbc news online 's big break diaries follow a group of people hunting for their big break in the arts and entertainment world .
poet jackie wills makes verse from sculpture while getting into the christmas spirit .
26 november applying for a grant from south east arts to write a play .
i read a piece in the paper recently questioning the value of grants to writers .
contrary to some popular opinion , there 's not a lot of money available and it 's the only way to develop new work if you do n't have savings .
large advances are available to very , very few .
30 november a woman i worked with on a local paper in surrey is retiring and tonight 's her leaving do .
she 's 80 and has been reporting on the local council for years .
jackie wills : partial to mulled wine she 's a natural storyteller and was a mentor to scores of young journalists , always on hand with a phone number for the coroner 's officer , or women 's institute .
3 december back to surrey to look at a sculpture by walter bailey , the broadwater oak .
i 've been commissioned to write a poem about it .
it 's a dead oak tree which he carved with a chainsaw on a recreation ground outside godalming .
it 's a man , who from a distance seems to be walking .
i enjoy commissions , but they make me nervous .
will they like what i come up with ? 7 december a poet friend is in brighton so we meet after his reading .
he 's done loads of commissions , so we talk about mine a little and he shows me some new work of his .
gives me a great tip - find the voice of the sculpture .
12 december the poetry society christmas party is the closest i come to an office bash .
i 've been in london all day , in the morning talking to a company about work , all afternoon trying pitifully to shop .
the party 's great .
john hegley 's the guest and a great laugh .
by the third glass of mulled wine , though , the polo neck jumper i put on this morning is overheating .
i leave reluctantly to get my train .
14 december i 've written two versions of my broadwater oak poem after spending a day in the library looking at books on anthropology .
no idea if this is useful , but maybe by doing this i clarify my thoughts .
the first version comes quite quickly .
the second , as i 'm getting on a bus in town .
i read it over the phone to another poet .
he confirms my instinct - it 's much better .
i email it off and hope the woman who commissioned me likes it .
16 december today i 'm performing at a christmas party with my partner 's samba band .
it 's based at a youth club on a local housing estate .
i play cowbell and shaker .
we 're all ages , the youngest is my daughter who 's seven .
santa 's black , which makes a refreshing change .
i 'm counting the days to 2 january when i go to south africa .
i 'll be there for my birthday .
looking forward togiraffes , big skies , mountains and new ideas .
top arts stories now : egypt reclaims stolen antiquities record numbers at da vinci exhibition wartime bomb found at bolshoi poetry prize shortlist unveiled sculpture of queen for jubilee princeton offers sculpture return turners return home blood sculpture ' melted ' links to more arts stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more arts stories in this section egypt reclaims stolen antiquities record numbers at da vinci exhibition wartime bomb found at bolshoi poetry prize shortlist unveiled sculpture of queen for jubilee princeton offers sculpture return turners return home blood sculpture ' melted ' fake harry potter novel hits china kandinsky painting row settled artist 's work saved for nation singer catches fire at royal opera chirac wins dumas ashes wrangle bell tolls for ' hunchback ' title star pair to tread london boards berkoff deported from us ' anti-semitic ' book sells out strike hits exhibition launch ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- hacker boys from brazil categories tv radio communicate where i live index search you are in : sci / tech front page world uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo services daily e-mail news ticker mobiles / pdas feedback help low graphics saturday , 22 december , 2001 , 08:06 gmt hacker boys from brazil brazil 's sites are some of the most hacked in the world by bbc click online 's simon hancock brazil boasts some of the most active hackers in the world .
an army of schoolchildren is flexing its information technology muscles , bringing company sites to their knees .
brazil 's sites are some of the most hacked in the world .
last year , the number of hacked sites increased 10 times .
like the graffiti artists of 20 years ago , they are looking to spray their names wherever they can .
they may be causing headaches now , but the bright side in the long run for the country may be that they are learning while they are at it .
from hacker to security expert andre fucs , now 23 years old , was once a hacker .
he now advises one of brazil 's biggest banks on computer security .
fucs : defacement is a macho joke " when you break a computer you have to understand how it works and you learn , " he told bbc click online .
" i think now i can think like a hacker , since i was breaking a lot of computer networks in brazil , i can guess how these guys are thinking . "
andre believes things have changed quite a bit since his day .
he has little time for today 's defacers .
" i think defacement is useless .
most of these guys do n't know how to do it .
they just care about their image .
" they 're not learning , they 're just repeating a procedure developed by someone else .
i think this is a big problem .
defacement is a macho joke . "
' patriotic ' hacking sometimes it can be funny though .
outraged brazilian defacers rampaged through canadian sites after the country banned brazilian beef , for example .
hackers defaced canadian sites so some attacks seem to have been thought out , but is this enough ?
" i think if they like computer security then they can become experts , but they have to want to and i do n't see this at all , " said andre .
" some guys have some will to change , but will is not everything , you need to start doing . "
these web vandals would do well to listen to andre , because if they follow his lead they could be cashing in for years to come .
" i can do anything i want .
i 'm not rich , but i can spend my holidays in europe , in chile skiing , " said andre .
" i do n't have snow in brazil and i can snowboard twice a year , it 's nice . "
click online is on bbc world on thursday at 2230 , friday at 1030 , 1430 and 2030 , saturday at 0730 , 1430 and 1930 and on sunday at 1030 .
all times gmt .
see also : 06 nov 01 -pipe- sci / tech welcome to the era of drive-by hacking 30 oct 01 -pipe- sci / tech attacks from the heart of the net 24 oct 01 -pipe- south asia indian news sites hacked 23 oct 01 -pipe- americas hacktivists take sides in war 01 dec 01 -pipe- europe learning to hack internet links : bbc click online the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top sci / tech stories now : astronomy 's next big thing ancient rock points to life 's origin mobile spam on the rise giant telescope project gets boost new hope for aids vaccine replace your mouse with your eye device could detect overdose drugs wireless internet arrives in china links to more sci / tech stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more sci / tech stories in this section astronomy 's next big thing ancient rock points to life 's origin mobile spam on the rise giant telescope project gets boost new hope for aids vaccine replace your mouse with your eye device could detect overdose drugs wireless internet arrives in china chicago steals a lead on silicon valley net body accused of bullying tactics phones , tones and mobile music skies open for uk astronomy q & a : astronomy super-club artificial star enhances telescope 's vision perfect for washing and astronomy russia plans to put people on mars ' windiest ' farm goes live national park ' goes live ' fish policies ' ignore evolution ' europe tightens gm labelling rules death knell for island hedgehogs big eye on the sky complex molecule surprises astronomers fossil was ' first walker ' ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- showbiz -pipe- 2001 : a year in pictures high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- entertainment contents : showbiz -pipe- music -pipe- film -pipe- arts -pipe- tv and radio -pipe- new media -pipe- reviews -pipe- bbc news online : entertainment : showbiz saturday , 22 december , 2001 , 09:44 gmt 2001 : a year in pictures bbc news online charts some of the entertainment year 's main events in pictures .
crowe leads gladiator to glory march : julia roberts picks up best actress oscar award for erin brockovich while russell crowe wins best actor for gladiator . full story bridget jones hits the silver screen april : colin firth , renee zellweger and hugh grant prove a success in the big-screen adaptation of bridget jones 's diary full story bond bikini sells for £ 35,000 february : the bikini worn by ursula andress in the bond movie dr no sells for £ 35,000 at auction . full story creed lights up turner prize december : controversial as ever , the turner prize is presented by madonna to artist martin creed for his work entitled the lights going on and off . full story paul and helen : we 're an item july : the romance between big brother contestants paul and helen fascinates the nation as brian dowling goes on to become winner of the second series . full story all eyes on pearl harbor première may : a host of stars attend the gala opening of pearl harbor on board the uss john c stennis but the critics savage the movie . full story young daniel gets potter part august : the child stars of the first harry potter movie are named : they are emma watson , daniel radcliffe and rupert grint . full story s club boys ' sorry ' after drugs bust march : the three male members of s club 7 are arrested for smoking cannabis in london 's covent garden . full story all over for cruise and kidman february : the entertainment world is shocked to hear hollywood couple nicole kidman and tom cruise are separating after 10 years of marriage . full story trafalgar square sculpture unveiled june : rachel whiteread 's monument - a water-clear resin cast of the inside of the granite plinth itself - is unveiled on the empty plinth at trafalgar square . full story click here for more pictures from 2001 .
high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- entertainment contents : showbiz -pipe- music -pipe- film -pipe- arts -pipe- tv and radio -pipe- new media -pipe- reviews -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- showbiz -pipe- 2001 : a year in pictures categories tv radio communicate where i live index search you are in : entertainment : showbiz front page world uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment showbiz music film arts tv and radio new media reviews talking point in depth audiovideo services daily e-mail news ticker mobiles / pdas feedback help low graphics saturday , 22 december , 2001 , 09:44 gmt 2001 : a year in pictures bbc news online charts some of the entertainment year 's main events in pictures .
crowe leads gladiator to glory march : julia roberts picks up best actress oscar award for erin brockovich while russell crowe wins best actor for gladiator . full story bridget jones hits the silver screen april : colin firth , renee zellweger and hugh grant prove a success in the big-screen adaptation of bridget jones 's diary full story bond bikini sells for £ 35,000 february : the bikini worn by ursula andress in the bond movie dr no sells for £ 35,000 at auction . full story creed lights up turner prize december : controversial as ever , the turner prize is presented by madonna to artist martin creed for his work entitled the lights going on and off . full story paul and helen : we 're an item july : the romance between big brother contestants paul and helen fascinates the nation as brian dowling goes on to become winner of the second series . full story all eyes on pearl harbor première may : a host of stars attend the gala opening of pearl harbor on board the uss john c stennis but the critics savage the movie . full story young daniel gets potter part august : the child stars of the first harry potter movie are named : they are emma watson , daniel radcliffe and rupert grint . full story s club boys ' sorry ' after drugs bust march : the three male members of s club 7 are arrested for smoking cannabis in london 's covent garden . full story all over for cruise and kidman february : the entertainment world is shocked to hear hollywood couple nicole kidman and tom cruise are separating after 10 years of marriage . full story trafalgar square sculpture unveiled june : rachel whiteread 's monument - a water-clear resin cast of the inside of the granite plinth itself - is unveiled on the empty plinth at trafalgar square . full story click here for more pictures from 2001 .
festive features looking back at 2001 ...
a year in pictures 2001 : a film odyssey music hits and misses the tv year 12 months in the arts eye on showbiz theatre fights back ... and ahead to 2002 a strange odyssey music predictions who 'll make it big ?
hollywood in focus tom brook 's top 10 nicole kidman 's year seasonal sounds carols from king 's christmas number ones mud on the dance floor interviews will smith eastenders peter chelsom have your say the year 's tv pop in 2001 favourite films top showbiz stories now : sex and the city creator marries dancer bowie dismisses kylie and robbie mccartney dodges honeymoon questions victoria beckham faces slander trial julia roberts marries cameraman bing drops kerkorian lawsuit injured eastenders star airlifted to uk comic defends euro hitler spoof links to more showbiz stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more showbiz stories in this section sex and the city creator marries dancer bowie dismisses kylie and robbie mccartney dodges honeymoon questions victoria beckham faces slander trial julia roberts marries cameraman bing drops kerkorian lawsuit injured eastenders star airlifted to uk comic defends euro hitler spoof barrymore called as inquest witness stars remember barry took dr elton graduates at last jackson made exeter fc director adam ant in court for hearing aniston settles privacy case sharon osbourne has cancer surgery row over spoof hitler euro advert geldof says no to euro barrymore 's long party hangover sex and the city creator to wed harrelson taxi charges dropped travolta pilots world jet mission geldof and izzard square up singer rosemary clooney dies ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- england -pipe- navy reviews weapon jetty plan categories tv radio communicate where i live index search you are in : uk : england front page world uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo services daily e-mail news ticker mobiles / pdas feedback help low graphics saturday , 22 december , 2001 , 09:53 gmt navy reviews weapon jetty plan devonport is home to the second submarine squadron a devon dockyard has said that plans for a controversial submarine re-arming facility in a nearby river are being reviewed .
five years ago , the royal navy announced its proposals to build a remote ammunitioning facility -lrb- raft -rrb- in the river tamar at the devonport dockyard in plymouth .
the jetty would be used to arm submarines with conventional weapons away from the base .
a local pressure group who objected to the scheme says it hopes the review means it will be dropped .
explosion danger the devonport naval base is the largest in western europe , covering over 650 acres .
it is home to seven nuclear-powered trafalgar-class hunter-killer submarines which form the second submarine squadron .
currently , re-arming happens at devonport dockyard , meaning the conventional explosion danger zone covers heavily populated areas , plus nuclear refitting equipment in the dockyard .
if the raft scheme went ahead , the danger zone would be moved to the centre of the river and unpopulated land .
the royal navy said it would improve safety .
the government did give formal permission for the project to go ahead , but protesters called for a public inquiry .
the navy said the raft would improve safety they also appealed to the prince of wales for help as some of the area used in the proposal is part of the duchy of cornwall , the prince 's estate .
prince charles , however , gave his approval for the scheme .
south east cornwall mp colin breed also said it would significantly improve the dockyard 's safety and operation .
he said : " it was a highly controversial development and permission was given after considerable public consultation and work by the dockyard and devonport management limited . "
but in recent weeks , some local people have heard rumours that the dockyard was preparing to drop the plan through cost .
ken tucker , the chair of the governors at nearby barne barton primary school , said that he had received a number of phone calls following his annual address to staff , claiming that the proposal was no longer cost-effective and would not be proceeding .
he wrote to the base commander , commodore ric cheadle , asking for confirmation .
objections raised the base has confirmed that there is an ongoing review which is due to be completed at the end of next month but it added that at the moment there is no plan to drop the raft scheme completely .
local pressure group cansar -lrb- the campaign against nuclear storage and radiation -rrb- also raised objections to the scheme .
spokesman ian avent said : " the scheme is one more nail in the coffin of plymouth .
" however , we would be delighted if the scheme was dropped . "
see also : 06 dec 01 -pipe- england navy base fails nuclear test 06 nov 01 -pipe- england dockyard to increase nuclear waste 01 nov 01 -pipe- england trident dock nears completion 13 aug 01 -pipe- uk papers reveal nuclear sub doubts 10 aug 01 -pipe- uk nuclear blunder delays sub refit internet links : devonport dockyard ministry of defence royal navy cansar the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top england stories now : tories attack brixton drugs scheme police shoot man on the m6 leanne killer jailed for life ivf mix-up heads for court inquiry into warship accident britain ' sheltering al-qaeda leader ' venables named leeds boss transplant first for cancer patient links to more england stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more england stories in this section tories attack brixton drugs scheme police shoot man on the m6 leanne killer jailed for life ivf mix-up heads for court inquiry into warship accident britain ' sheltering al-qaeda leader ' venables named leeds boss transplant first for cancer patient roman fishy tale uncovered schoolboy ' murdered for £ 10 debt ' home collapses after council dig residents protest at road charges children see father shot device could detect overdose drugs trainee rabbi disappears killer drunk driver faces years in jail parents to sue over epilepsy row bodies found as trawler capsizes gun scare drug addict jailed man in court over body in wood church sickness cause inquiry tests on body found in road search team finds body in loch ' first walk in 50 years ' scheme to cut motorway congestion how leanne 's killer was caught tiernan killer 's sadistic past leanne 's family living in ' hell ' snatched on a shopping trip ' scout leader ' guilty of sex offences nissan workforce tops table ' millions more needed ' for north east police hunt masked gunman jensen goes into administration farmhouse murder victim named shootings lead to airgun amnesties two men deny jackson killing ex-soldier ' stabbed partner 40 times ' police chief defends response time ' tragedy ' of boy killed by propeller oaps injured in minibus crash flats demolition plan criticised rare choughs get vip visit cctv blamed for drug users ' move donor ensures lifeboat sails open jail set for 80 more cells ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
