bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- japan pm under pressure front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- bbc news online : world : asia-pacific monday , 19 february , 2001 , 06:40 gmt japan pm under pressure embattled japanese prime minister yoshiro mori has rejected calls to resign following a string of scandals and verbal blunders .
a weekend opinion poll put mr mori 's popularity rating at 9 % , the second-lowest rate for any prime minister since the asahi newspaper began polls in 1946 .
he should consider an honourable retreat new komeito party official mr mori said his job was to see through this year 's budget for the sake of the economy and to carry on with other reforms .
but speculation is mounting that leaders in his three-party ruling coalition will force him to step down as early as next month to improve their chances in a key election in july .
" what i must do above all is achieve an economic recovery , " mr mori told a panel in parliament on monday .
" and for that , i want by all means to enact the budget .
" i am doing my best for that , and want to fulfil my responsibility in areas such as education and information technology reforms . "
resignation ' inevitable ' but senior japanese officials were calling for his resignation , the japanese news agency kyodo reported .
a deputy from mr mori 's own liberal democratic party -lrb- ldp -rrb- , muneo suzuki , told party supporters that mr mori should " make a decision for the sake of japan " , the agency said .
a top official in the new komeito party , the ldp 's coalition partner , said his resignation was now inevitable .
" the tide has turned completely .
he should consider an honourable retreat , " the agency quoted the official as saying on condition of anonymity .
it is the biggest crisis of mr mori 's 10-month rule .
troubled times the question mark over who will run japan comes amid growing concern of the nation 's faltering economy and tense relations with the us after a us submarine accidently sank a japanese trawler off hawaii .
mr mori came under attack from all quarters for continuing to play golf while news of the accident broke .
the gaffe-prone leader 's troubles began last may with an offhand remark , just a month after taking office , when he described japan as " a divine nation with the emperor at its core " .
the comment revived uncomfortable memories of japan 's wartime ideology of emperor worship and sent mr mori 's support ratings of just under 40 % into a downward spiral .
at the weekend , 71 % of voters polled by the daily asahi newspaper said they wanted mr mori to quit as soon as possible .
the prime minster with the newspaper 's lowest ever opinion rating was noboru takeshita in april 1989 .
he polled just 7 % and quit two months later .
related to this story : top-level inquiry into trawler sinking -lrb- 18 feb 01 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- mori in trouble over sub collision -lrb- 14 feb 01 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- mori : gaffe-prone leader -lrb- 14 feb 01 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- new blow for japanese government -lrb- 27 oct 00 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- japan : a divine country ? -lrb- 16 may 00 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- japan row over sleepy voters -lrb- 21 jun 00 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- fresh blow for japan pm -lrb- 02 aug 00 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- internet links : asahi shimbun -pipe- japan government -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- japan pm under pressure low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : world : asia-pacific front page world africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia - from our own correspondent - letter from america uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo the bbc 's charles scanlon in tokyo " a string of scandals and verbal blunders had convinced most japanese he was not up to the job " real 28k monday , 19 february , 2001 , 06:40 gmt japan pm under pressure mr mori has been plagued by a string of gaffes embattled japanese prime minister yoshiro mori has rejected calls to resign following a string of scandals and verbal blunders .
a weekend opinion poll put mr mori 's popularity rating at 9 % , the second-lowest rate for any prime minister since the asahi newspaper began polls in 1946 .
he should consider an honourable retreat new komeito party official mr mori said his job was to see through this year 's budget for the sake of the economy and to carry on with other reforms .
but speculation is mounting that leaders in his three-party ruling coalition will force him to step down as early as next month to improve their chances in a key election in july .
" what i must do above all is achieve an economic recovery , " mr mori told a panel in parliament on monday .
" and for that , i want by all means to enact the budget .
" i am doing my best for that , and want to fulfil my responsibility in areas such as education and information technology reforms . "
resignation ' inevitable ' but senior japanese officials were calling for his resignation , the japanese news agency kyodo reported .
a deputy from mr mori 's own liberal democratic party -lrb- ldp -rrb- , muneo suzuki , told party supporters that mr mori should " make a decision for the sake of japan " , the agency said .
a top official in the new komeito party , the ldp 's coalition partner , said his resignation was now inevitable .
" the tide has turned completely .
he should consider an honourable retreat , " the agency quoted the official as saying on condition of anonymity .
it is the biggest crisis of mr mori 's 10-month rule .
troubled times the question mark over who will run japan comes amid growing concern of the nation 's faltering economy and tense relations with the us after a us submarine accidently sank a japanese trawler off hawaii .
mr mori took office after the death of keizo obuchi mr mori came under attack from all quarters for continuing to play golf while news of the accident broke .
the gaffe-prone leader 's troubles began last may with an offhand remark , just a month after taking office , when he described japan as " a divine nation with the emperor at its core " .
the comment revived uncomfortable memories of japan 's wartime ideology of emperor worship and sent mr mori 's support ratings of just under 40 % into a downward spiral .
at the weekend , 71 % of voters polled by the daily asahi newspaper said they wanted mr mori to quit as soon as possible .
the prime minster with the newspaper 's lowest ever opinion rating was noboru takeshita in april 1989 .
he polled just 7 % and quit two months later .
search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide see also : 18 feb 01 -pipe- asia-pacific top-level inquiry into trawler sinking 14 feb 01 -pipe- asia-pacific mori in trouble over sub collision 14 feb 01 -pipe- asia-pacific mori : gaffe-prone leader 27 oct 00 -pipe- asia-pacific new blow for japanese government 16 may 00 -pipe- asia-pacific japan : a divine country ? 21 jun 00 -pipe- asia-pacific japan row over sleepy voters 02 aug 00 -pipe- asia-pacific fresh blow for japan pm internet links : asahi shimbun japan government the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top asia-pacific stories now : blaze kills 42 in indonesian bar china vows to overhaul courts koreas trade fresh war of words philippines church apologises for sex abuse search for ' spy ' pilots in china chinese chemical spill kills 13 malaysian state passes islamic law vietnam 's unburied soldiers head home links to more asia-pacific stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more asia-pacific stories in this section blaze kills 42 in indonesian bar china vows to overhaul courts koreas trade fresh war of words philippines church apologises for sex abuse search for ' spy ' pilots in china chinese chemical spill kills 13 malaysian state passes islamic law vietnam 's unburied soldiers head home philippines storms kill 14 inquiry into warship accident breast advert ' unfit for the young ' bank of china to raise $ 3bn in share sale wireless internet arrives in china finance chiefs target terrorist cash hewitt on cloud nine woodbridge wins yet again campbell stumbles to victory japanese gets lost in translation warship accident was ' worst feeling ' australia 's new ' black pride ' ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- americas -pipe- eight killed in brazil prison riots low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : world : americas front page world africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia - from our own correspondent - letter from america uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo the bbc 's tom gibb in sao paulo " the leaders have been co-ordinating the uprising with cell phones " real 56k carandiro priest father guenther " the military police are continuing to block the transfer of very ill inmates to hospital " real 28k monday , 19 february , 2001 , 07:05 gmt eight killed in brazil prison riots riot police have surrounded carandiru jail at least eight prisoners have been killed and thousands of people taken hostage during an apparently coordinated wave of prison riots across the brazilian state of sao paulo .
police said they had quashed rebellions in 10 of the 18 prisons , but the stand-off continued at carandiru , which holds 8,000 inmates in the city of sao paulo .
the rebellions appear well co-ordinated state security secretary marco vinicio petrelluzzi said eight inmates had died during the first 10 hours of riots - two of them killed by guards in carandiru .
the uprising was organised by the criminal group first commando of the capital -lrb- pcc -rrb- , apparently in protest at a decision to transfer its 10 top leaders from carandiru to other prisons on friday , following a disturbance in which five inmates were killed .
the letters pcc were written in giant letters on prison courtyard walls .
blood stains televised images , filmed from helicopters , showed a number of carandiru 's nine prison blocks ablaze , hundreds of white sheets hanging from windows , and barricades .
at one stage the footage showed prisoners dragging two bodies across a courtyard , leaving trails of blood on the ground .
a mother outside carandiru prays for her son inside the prison some 5,000 people , including more than 1,000 children , are still inside carandiru half a day after the rebellion began .
most of the hostages are wives and children who were making their weekly sunday visits , when family members of inmates are allowed to go to cells for conjugal relations or a meal .
many had chosen to stay the night after they missed their trains home .
hundreds of other family members have gathered outside carandiru , some throwing objects at police lined up in front of the main gate .
reports say that in some jails , when offered the chance to leave , some hostages chose to stay , fearing that if they left the police would use force to retake control and large numbers of inmates could be killed .
nine years ago , 111 inmates were killed at carandiru , latin america 's largest prison , when military police stormed the jail after a similar uprising .
criminal gangs security officials are continuing negotiations to release the hostages .
the prisoners say they want the military police to retire completely from the jail in return for releasing all the women and children , which the authorities say is unacceptable .
in the smaller belem prison , also in sao paulo , naked prisoners were made to march outside and line up against a wall with their hands behind their necks .
soon afterwards , women with children in their arms were released from the prison .
justice minister jose gregori , who was in sao paulo , said he was flying back sunday night to brasilia , confident the situation was under control .
" the situation was worse and remains worrying , but the majority of prisons where there were rebellions are back under control of authorities , " he told reporters .
human rights organisations have long denounced the power of criminal organisations which have special privileges within the prisons .
the pcc has been responsible for a series of murders of other prisoners over recent months , according to people working inside the prisons .
there are reports of them having access to cell-phones , allowing them to continue organising criminal activities outside the jail , as well as to co-ordinate prison uprisings .
prison riots are endemic in brazil , where inhuman conditions and over-crowding have repeatedly been condemned by human rights group .
a congressional commission recently described brazil 's prison system as a " reinvention of hell " .
search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide see also : 19 dec 00 -pipe- americas nine die in brazil prison riot 17 aug 00 -pipe- americas eleven die in brazilian prison riot 15 jun 00 -pipe- americas inmates wed in mass ceremony 01 jan 99 -pipe- americas prisoners escape while brazil celebrates 15 dec 98 -pipe- americas inside latin america 's worst prison 19 feb 01 -pipe- americas brazil 's notorious prisons internet links : brazilian justice ministry the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top americas stories now : bush vows action after scandals ' white supremacists ' on trial in boston worldcom chiefs refuse to testify canada blazes send smoke south pentagon team to examine bomb error hundreds mourn la airport victims new hope for aids vaccine texas pleads for more flood aid links to more americas stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more americas stories in this section bush vows action after scandals ' white supremacists ' on trial in boston worldcom chiefs refuse to testify canada blazes send smoke south pentagon team to examine bomb error hundreds mourn la airport victims new hope for aids vaccine texas pleads for more flood aid search for ' spy ' pilots in china us plans mass smallpox vaccination carter starts venezuela talks spielberg refused star wars trial huge bomb deactivated in colombia cash boost for caribbean aids fight merck ' exaggerated ' revenue in accounts enron board ' ignored financial warnings ' argentina ' will not force savings swap ' net body accused of bullying tactics awesome hewitt wins wimbledon more joy for williams double act inkster claims open title ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- scotland -pipe- shipping boost for scapa flow front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- bbc news online : uk : scotland monday , 19 february , 2001 , 07:31 gmt shipping boost for scapa flow plans for a massive container port in scapa flow , which could create up to 2000 jobs , should be given the go-ahead , according to a report .
a feasibility study , commissioned by highlands and islands enterprise , says that plans for the container port are " commercially attractive and should be taken further forward " .
it is understood the vast development , if approved , would could cost up to £ 470m .
highlands and islands enterprise said the container port could be operational by the year 2006 if a funding package is approved .
scapa flow served as the royal navy 's main anchorage during both world wars .
' giant freighters ' since the 1970s it has dealt with tanker traffic from the flotta oil terminal .
in recent years it has acted as a staging post for smaller shuttle tankers from north sea fields to transfer their cargos into supertankers for long-haul voyages .
now the plan is to adapt that principle , turning scapa flow into a massive container port where giant freighters from north america and south east asia could exchange cargos with smaller ships sailing out of the shallower ports around europe .
the feasibility study , which was published on monday , concluded that the plans should be taken forward .
highlands and islands enterprise has described the findings as " very encouraging " .
related to this story : plans to protect sea graves -lrb- 14 feb 01 -pipe- scotland -rrb- ashes placed in battleship grave -lrb- 14 oct 00 -pipe- scotland -rrb- leaking battleship to be drained -lrb- 13 oct 00 -pipe- scotland -rrb- wwii cruiser ' sunk by blunder ' -lrb- 19 feb 99 -pipe- uk -rrb- internet links : orkney islands council -pipe- highlands and islands enterprise -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- scotland -pipe- shipping boost for scapa flow low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : uk : scotland front page world uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo monday , 19 february , 2001 , 07:31 gmt shipping boost for scapa flow the port would be able to deal with ' supertankers ' plans for a massive container port in scapa flow , which could create up to 2000 jobs , should be given the go-ahead , according to a report .
a feasibility study , commissioned by highlands and islands enterprise , says that plans for the container port are " commercially attractive and should be taken further forward " .
it is understood the vast development , if approved , would could cost up to £ 470m .
highlands and islands enterprise said the container port could be operational by the year 2006 if a funding package is approved .
scapa flow served as the royal navy 's main anchorage during both world wars .
' giant freighters ' since the 1970s it has dealt with tanker traffic from the flotta oil terminal .
in recent years it has acted as a staging post for smaller shuttle tankers from north sea fields to transfer their cargos into supertankers for long-haul voyages .
now the plan is to adapt that principle , turning scapa flow into a massive container port where giant freighters from north america and south east asia could exchange cargos with smaller ships sailing out of the shallower ports around europe .
the feasibility study , which was published on monday , concluded that the plans should be taken forward .
highlands and islands enterprise has described the findings as " very encouraging " .
search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide see also : 14 feb 01 -pipe- scotland plans to protect sea graves 14 oct 00 -pipe- scotland ashes placed in battleship grave 13 oct 00 -pipe- scotland leaking battleship to be drained 19 feb 99 -pipe- uk wwii cruiser ' sunk by blunder ' internet links : orkney islands council highlands and islands enterprise the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories now : new powers call for donor cards girl 's death sparks major inquiry north sea rig hit by explosion killer faces wife assault charge rapist jailed over murder bid scots killed in alps fall national park ' goes live ' security van raid tip-off links to more scotland stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more scotland stories in this section new powers call for donor cards girl 's death sparks major inquiry north sea rig hit by explosion killer faces wife assault charge rapist jailed over murder bid scots killed in alps fall national park ' goes live ' security van raid tip-off gm crop trial sites announced rowing team arrives back in uk drivers ' habits under police scrutiny ' windiest ' farm goes live dogs in poison bug frame search team finds body in loch scots business profits weaken church sickness cause inquiry rig boat body recovered scotland 's roadworks venables named leeds boss mcnish laments british debut yorkston counters tv claims coulthard rues bad decisions what the scottish daily papers say bbc scotland - news on air bbc scotland - politics on air frontline scotland crash claims man 's life no action against mcleish aide ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- scotland -pipe- report suggests closing 500 churches low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : uk : scotland front page world uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo monday , 19 february , 2001 , 08:03 gmt report suggests closing 500 churches the report will go before the assembly in may a radical new report - to go before the church of scotland - is understood to recommend that the kirk should shed nearly a third of its churches .
rev peter neilson , who chairs the kirk 's special commission on review and reform , will suggest some 500 of 1,700 churches should go because they are either not needed or in the wrong place .
his report also suggests cutting the number of ministers and devolving power away from the kirk 's central bureaucracy .
other ideas it throws up for debate include scrapping some sunday services and some traditional prayers and sermons .
the report is likely to be met with opposition mr neilson said : " we have indicated that there are more churches than we actually need because of changes in people 's expectations of the church and changing habits .
" we have many more churches around than we actually need and many , we believe , are in the wrong places or they are of the wrong type . "
the report , called church without walls , was commissioned by the church of scotland as a response to dwindling congregations and falling membership .
fierce debate in its heyday , the church had 1.3 million members in scotland , nearly double the present figure of around 660,000 .
the report , which was commissioned three years ago , is set to go before the kirk 's general assembly in may , where it is expected to provoke fierce debate about the future structure and look of the kirk .
mr neilson said : " we have not set out strict proposals that churches should close or other changes should come about , that is for people to take at a local level .
" the church we inherited was a settled church for settled communities , which is no longer the case in the new millennium .
" i believe there is a mood for change at a local level and a mood for change amongst those who are responsible for the leadership of the church . "
search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide see also : 17 feb 01 -pipe- scotland moderator meets the pope 17 oct 00 -pipe- scotland kirk names new moderator 02 jun 00 -pipe- scotland kirk backs parliament internet links : church of scotland the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top scotland stories now : new powers call for donor cards girl 's death sparks major inquiry north sea rig hit by explosion killer faces wife assault charge rapist jailed over murder bid scots killed in alps fall national park ' goes live ' security van raid tip-off links to more scotland stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more scotland stories in this section new powers call for donor cards girl 's death sparks major inquiry north sea rig hit by explosion killer faces wife assault charge rapist jailed over murder bid scots killed in alps fall national park ' goes live ' security van raid tip-off gm crop trial sites announced rowing team arrives back in uk drivers ' habits under police scrutiny ' windiest ' farm goes live dogs in poison bug frame search team finds body in loch scots business profits weaken church sickness cause inquiry rig boat body recovered scotland 's roadworks venables named leeds boss mcnish laments british debut yorkston counters tv claims coulthard rues bad decisions what the scottish daily papers say bbc scotland - news on air bbc scotland - politics on air frontline scotland crash claims man 's life no action against mcleish aide ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- scotland -pipe- report suggests closing 500 churches front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- bbc news online : uk : scotland monday , 19 february , 2001 , 08:03 gmt report suggests closing 500 churches a radical new report - to go before the church of scotland - is understood to recommend that the kirk should shed nearly a third of its churches .
rev peter neilson , who chairs the kirk 's special commission on review and reform , will suggest some 500 of 1,700 churches should go because they are either not needed or in the wrong place .
his report also suggests cutting the number of ministers and devolving power away from the kirk 's central bureaucracy .
other ideas it throws up for debate include scrapping some sunday services and some traditional prayers and sermons .
mr neilson said : " we have indicated that there are more churches than we actually need because of changes in people 's expectations of the church and changing habits .
" we have many more churches around than we actually need and many , we believe , are in the wrong places or they are of the wrong type . "
the report , called church without walls , was commissioned by the church of scotland as a response to dwindling congregations and falling membership .
fierce debate in its heyday , the church had 1.3 million members in scotland , nearly double the present figure of around 660,000 .
the report , which was commissioned three years ago , is set to go before the kirk 's general assembly in may , where it is expected to provoke fierce debate about the future structure and look of the kirk .
mr neilson said : " we have not set out strict proposals that churches should close or other changes should come about , that is for people to take at a local level .
" the church we inherited was a settled church for settled communities , which is no longer the case in the new millennium .
" i believe there is a mood for change at a local level and a mood for change amongst those who are responsible for the leadership of the church . "
related to this story : moderator meets the pope -lrb- 17 feb 01 -pipe- scotland -rrb- kirk names new moderator -lrb- 17 oct 00 -pipe- scotland -rrb- kirk backs parliament -lrb- 02 jun 00 -pipe- scotland -rrb- internet links : church of scotland -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- wales -pipe- flight attendant on gulf drug charges front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- bbc news online : uk : wales monday , 19 february , 2001 , 08:05 gmt flight attendant on gulf drug charges an air hostess from south wales has appeared with four other britons before a court in the united arab emirates - accused of drugs offences .
katherine jenkins , from neath , is charged with possesing cocaine .
she denies the charges .
she faces a prison sentence of at least four years if found guilty .
the five are accused of being part of a gang of seven people - including an australian woman and a lebanese man - who were trafficking , selling and using drugs in the emirates .
the five britons were brought into the court in handcuffs .
the women all wore long black robes and had their heads covered .
after a hearing lasting about 30 minutes , they were remanded in custody to appear before the court again on 13 march .
they have been held at al mamoura prison in the northern emirate of ras al khaimah - a traditional and conservative region of the country - since their arrest in november .
stacy simpson and his girlfriend , anne kidd , from leeds , are accused of importing , possessing and using cocaine and hashish .
they both deny the charges .
anna bartlett from southend on sea in essex has admitted importing cocaine and hashish but denies any intent to sell it .
katherine jenkins , an airline stewardess in dubai , is charged with possessing cocaine .
she told the court it was not in her possession and was not hers .
the fifth defendant is danielle mallouf from london .
he pleaded guilty to using hashish but not guilty to the possession of any drugs .
growing threat the gulf states have become increasingly concerned that drug traffickers are targeting their countries .
smugglers believe lack of alcohol and the relative wealth of the region makes it an ideal marketplace for drugs .
a change in the law five years ago means drug traffickers can face execution .
but no westerner has been sentenced to death in the uae in the last 10 years .
but the growing threat of drugs in the region has stiffened political and public opinion .
courts are issuing sterner sentences for drug offenders .
even the possession of drugs , without the intent to sell , can result in a sentence of up to four years in prison .
internet links : fair trials abroad -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- wales -pipe- flight attendant on gulf drug charges low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : uk : wales front page world uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo stephen jakobi , fair trials abroad charity " somebody might be innocent and just be lumped in with the rest " real 28k monday , 19 february , 2001 , 08:05 gmt flight attendant on gulf drug charges drug trafficking is a growing problem in dubai an air hostess from south wales has appeared with four other britons before a court in the united arab emirates - accused of drugs offences .
katherine jenkins , from neath , is charged with possesing cocaine .
she denies the charges .
katherine jenkins : denies charges she faces a prison sentence of at least four years if found guilty .
the five are accused of being part of a gang of seven people - including an australian woman and a lebanese man - who were trafficking , selling and using drugs in the emirates .
the five britons were brought into the court in handcuffs .
the women all wore long black robes and had their heads covered .
after a hearing lasting about 30 minutes , they were remanded in custody to appear before the court again on 13 march .
they have been held at al mamoura prison in the northern emirate of ras al khaimah - a traditional and conservative region of the country - since their arrest in november .
charges include cocaine posession stacy simpson and his girlfriend , anne kidd , from leeds , are accused of importing , possessing and using cocaine and hashish .
they both deny the charges .
anna bartlett from southend on sea in essex has admitted importing cocaine and hashish but denies any intent to sell it .
katherine jenkins , an airline stewardess in dubai , is charged with possessing cocaine .
she told the court it was not in her possession and was not hers .
the fifth defendant is danielle mallouf from london .
he pleaded guilty to using hashish but not guilty to the possession of any drugs .
growing threat the gulf states have become increasingly concerned that drug traffickers are targeting their countries .
smugglers believe lack of alcohol and the relative wealth of the region makes it an ideal marketplace for drugs .
a change in the law five years ago means drug traffickers can face execution .
but no westerner has been sentenced to death in the uae in the last 10 years .
but the growing threat of drugs in the region has stiffened political and public opinion .
courts are issuing sterner sentences for drug offenders .
even the possession of drugs , without the intent to sell , can result in a sentence of up to four years in prison .
search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide internet links : fair trials abroad the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top wales stories now : soap actor killed in holiday fall wales leads uk bust firms league husband jailed for rape attack festival town prepares for euros plea for more kidney donors rowing team arrives back in uk families opt for single jabs hain turns fire on greens links to more wales stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more wales stories in this section soap actor killed in holiday fall wales leads uk bust firms league husband jailed for rape attack festival town prepares for euros plea for more kidney donors rowing team arrives back in uk families opt for single jabs hain turns fire on greens muslim cleric defies speech ban queen ' could block camilla title ' former clydach suspect sues police identity of georgian kidnappers known record numbers at da vinci exhibition police probe mystery barrack deaths honest bob rains feeling on audience americans discover welsh roots hannan 's call to order price on the mend joubert ready to quit cardiff tigers strengthen their pack date set for murder trial ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- talking point -pipe- sharon 's victory : what next ?
front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- talking point contents : forum -pipe- bbc news online : talking point monday , 19 february , 2001 , 08:38 gmt sharon 's victory : what next ?
select the link below to watch talking point on air ariel sharon is to become israel 's next prime minister .
mr sharon has won a landslide victory over the incumbent prime minister , ehud barak .
israelis who voted for ariel sharon want him to get tough with the palestinians and bring to an end the months of violence .
palestinians know that dealing with the right-winger will be more difficult than with mr barak .
their leaders have vowed to intensify their uprising .
what hope is there for any progress in the peace process and an end to the violence now that ariel sharon is taking over the reins of power in israel ?
we were debating this issue on our global phone-in programme " talking point on air " .
robin lustig was joined by likud mp dr. yuval steinitz live from jerusalem .
your comments since the programme your comments during the programme your comments before the programme this talking point is now closed .
a selection of your comments are posted below .
the people who live in the past do n't make the future morris , uk one has to remember that there is realism and idealism .
while it may be true that israel did n't have a right to occupy the land it now has , it must be remembered that there are people living there now .
the people who live in the past do n't make the future .
history is there to be learned from , to be or not to be repeated , but can not be changed .
therefore , by taking the situation as it is now , and trying to work further one can hope to achieve an eternal peace .
morris , uk i ca n't stand sharon and i am not happy he is my pm - but i do n't think the palestinians have a right to complain because 1 -rrb- they put him there and 2 -rrb- arafat 's hands are equally soaked with blood .
maybe one day we 'll both be mature enough to choose leaders on the basis of their peace-making , not their war-mongering .
vered , jerusalem , israel the biggest obstacle to the peace process is not sovereignty over jerusalem : it 's the question of the ' right of return ' .
today 's modern israeli ' democracy ' discriminates against palestinians by giving jews around the world " the right of return " : the right to become citizens of israel , yet refuses to give that option to palestinians who were forced out of their homes during the last several wars .
david koch , jerusalem , israel israelis want a homeland , and i can understand that .
but why force out other peoples from lands that they 've lived in for thousands of years ?
the jews can return , but do it in a peaceful way .
occupy lands that are n't owned by others , and create a true democratic system where all peoples - jews , palestinians , etc . , can freely choose who rules them .
but , of course , most israelis are only interested in forming a jewish country , and that 's why we have all this trouble now .
onn , adelaide , australia israel made peace with egypt and jordan , so it 's not israel 's lack of wanting peace that has brought us to this point .
instead , it 's the palestinian 's lack of desire to stop the hate and killing and lack of will to accept peace with israel .
they had the chance but showed their true colours .
now , israel will defend itself , like any other country facing terrorism .
seal , san diego usa we have lots of legal and illegal hispanics here in southern california with a percentage more than 55 % of the total population .
how about one day they declare southern california to be their own separate country basing that movement on the fact that it belonged to their ancestors -lrb- the spaniards -rrb- way before the americans dwelled it ! ?
how would the world react to that ?
most importantly , how would the southern californians and the other americans react to that ?
why did the world go haywire when iraq invaded kuwait in 1991 ?
according to iraq , kuwait was part of it for hundreds and hundreds of years !
you might argue that actions like that are things of the past -lrb- 18th and 19th centuries -rrb- .
but did it ever occur to you that israel was formed by force just only 53 years back !
the arabs resent the fact that israel was imposed on them .
they resent the fact that during its unwelcome formation , it displaced millions of arabs .
they resent its arrogance regarding the jerusalem issue .
ismail , los angeles , usa peace is about concession benjy , oxford , uk the fact is that barak offered every concession he realistically could .
now , this may not have been quite all that arafat wanted .
however , peace is about concession and arafat must have realised that barak 's offer was the best they have ever received .
in addition , it was always clear that the israeli offer would not be anywhere nearly so generous following the election .
this seems to suggest that arafat did not actually want to sign a peace accord .
benjy , oxford , uk the israelis tried to achieve peace by giving : barak had given the palestinians more then anyone else before him and in response he got riots .
that 's because he showed himself weak and arafat grabbed on to that in split second .
well , israel has tried to approach the problem from the left -lrb- i.e. by giving -rrb- and fail utterly , they 'll now try to approach it from the right .
good luck !
my personal belief , is that , no peace will be achieved as long as arafat is in charge .
ilya elyashkevich , los angeles , us another example of the total detachment from reality by michael , jerusalem , israel - saying the palestinians should stop the violence .
a few questions to put to people who refuse to look reality in the face : who has a trained army shooting at palestinians ?
who has used rockets , missiles and helicopters against the palestinians ?
who is continually and systematically destroying -lrb- bulldozing -rrb- palestinians homes and olive trees ?
james ashby , london , england ariel sharon is not interested in peace , in fact his agenda is to derail the peace process and start another war with its arab neighbours , that is the only way israel can expand its current territory .
by starting another war israel would again gain sympathy from the west who has becoming frustrated with israel 's human rights and undignified arrogance to accept peace with the palestinians .
yasser arafat is in fact a puppet of israel that is the reason he is being jerked around .
it is time palestinian elect a moral leader who is sincere in resolving the issue rather then pretending to be important .
as far as peace in the middle east for now it is dead and a very difficult time is ahead because no matter what palestinian agree to sharon will not accept .
gul khan , usa your comments since the programme there can be no right of return for the palestinians to israel and there can be no negotiations as long as violence continues john megiddo , south africa the so-called occupation is a fallacy .
both groups if anything , have equal rights to the land .
what the palestinians demand is the annihilation of israel - something that can not be given .
had the palestinians desired their own state they could have had it - with some compromises being made .
there can be no right of return for the palestinians to israel and there can be no negotiations as long as violence continues .
john megiddo , south africa throwing stone at israelis army will not bring peace whatsoever , and will not offer places like gaza and others cities being offered by israel former pm .
i believe continuing violence against israel , under mr. sharon will result in a big crisis in the region .
john mac acuek , australia i 'd like to point out to dennis taylor that israel did not steal arab land with force .
the arab countries surrounding israel have declared war on israel a number of times -lrb- 5 or 6 -rrb- and israel has won all these wars taking land in the process .
dan , london , uk each time that i hear experts , politicians and commentators thrash around the arab / israeli conflict i am struck by the naivety of the discussion .
fear has given the state of israel its raison d 'etre and aggressive arrogance its style of diplomacy .
the palestinians have been caught between the disinterest of the arab world at large , the powerful american pro-israeli lobby and the hypocracy of the western world .
both the israelis and palestinians are engaged in a tribal deadlock which has been smeared over with the sophistication of the modern world .
to resolve this deadlock they have both need to recognise whilst their mutual detestation and suspicion may give them identity it is not , and never will permit them to rise above brutality and death .
tony harding , uk what happened to the jews in europe was a separate subject .
but had the allies used more foresight , the israeli / palestinian clash could perhaps have at least been side-stepped stephen pohlmann uk / tel aviv i have never been a sharon supporter .
i am leftist , with the usual swings to the right .
but sharon was the first to remind me of the status of jordan .
recently , a bbc reporter from amman happened to mention in passing that over 50 % of the jordanian population is palestinian .
as far as i know , it is over 60 % .
this is not something to ' pass over ' .
i know of no other nation in the world which has a majority of its population holding on to a different nationality .
and unlike , say the irish americans , they do not consider assimilation ; they remain fervently palestinian .
it is easy to say that the palestinians have many countries where they are considered ' brothers ' , -lrb- although they are not treated very brotherly by them -rrb- , but to say they do not have a homeland is wrong .
and who is responsible ?
who should make more effort to right the wrongs ?
the british and the french , who rewarded their allies against the turks by establishing jordan and iraq , without any real consideration for the indigenous population .
what happened to the jews in europe was a separate subject .
but had the allies used more foresight , the israeli / palestinian clash could perhaps have at least been side-stepped .
stephen pohlmann uk / tel aviv we are only blaming people on both sides who are at fault .
i want to agree with ramesh from australia & betty from israel : in 1948 israel was given a certain area of land , but gradually and with force stole more land from the arabs .
the cause of this violence -lrb- and any -rrb- is religion .
history shows that the jews left the area thousands of years ago , yet they came back .
this to me is discrimination with a capital " d " .
dennis taylor , australia peace between israel and the palestinian 's is very much dependent a whole new ethos in the arab world derek , beit shemesh peace between israel and the palestinian 's is very much dependent a whole new ethos in the arab world .
not until the arab world begins to foster democratic governments where tolerance will emerge , will the masses learn to express themselves less emotionally and more intellectually in a rational framework .
until then arabs will continue to home in on the so-called injustice of israel to focus the attention away from their own countries tragic internal failures away onto israel .
derek , beit shemesh calling israel a democracy is a joke .
how can a country claim to be a democracy when a large part of its populace has been forced out on gun-point , not allowed to return home and denied their right to vote just because they have a different opinion or ethnicity ?
h. jalisi , usa ariel sharon is a war criminal by anyone 's standards , why is the us -lrb- and the uk -rrb- trying to bring to justice one war criminal -lrb- slobodan milosovic -rrb- while shaking hands with another ?
surely a criminal is a criminal ?
armagan akram , london , uk israel wo n't go away and die , and nobody should expect us to michael , jerusalem , israel once again , the comments from people outside israel prove that everybody listens to biased reporting , rather than hearing the truth .
an organisation in israel translates the " official " news bulletins of the palestinians , and if you 'd read the transcripts , you 'd understand why barak had to go , and just regret that he twisted the electoral law to keep netanyahu -lrb- everybody 's real choice -rrb- out of the race .
israel wo n't go away and die , and nobody should expect us to .
and if the palestinians want to be regarded as victims , they should stop the violence , and sit down to talk .
michael , jerusalem , israel although i do n't buy the argument that israel belongs to the jews , just because it says so in a book -lrb- by that rationale , today 's italians can lay claim to the rest of europe ; and native americans own the us -rrb- , the fact of the matter is that israel exists and has to be dealt with .
all arab nations and communities need to accept this reality ...
israel is not going to go away !
similarly , the israelis need to understand that they simply can not have it all their own way ... the palestinians are real people with real needs and aspirations who deserve equal opportunity to excel and develop .
mark m. newdick , usa / uk arafat is now the loser , he pushed for too much and now he has got nothing b cope , manchester uk the world has now seen that it is the palestinians and not the israelis who are the real obstacle to peace .
arafat was offered the most generous concessions ever and he chose to reject them .
the reason , the palestinians want israel 's destruction , nothing that is offered will ever be enough .
arafat is now the loser , he pushed for too much and now he has got nothing = sharon .
it is his own fault .
b cope , manchester uk arafat missed a golden opportunity .
the more barak conceded the more arafat wanted .
it will be some time before israel can reach such a state of negotiation again .
edwin gatt , st. paul 's bay malta your comments during the programme i would like to point to a different perspective : what has been happening to all the money being given to the palestinians by the west ?
the standards of living of the palestinians in gaza and west bank is just as abominable as before and the leadership is getting fat .
no wonder there is rebellion in the street , except that it is wrongfully being fanned towards what is their considered traditional enemy - israel .
claudia nielsen i think usa is responsible for all violence in palestine yoosaf , india i think usa is responsible for all violence in palestine .
they are fooling the world by acting as a mediator .
without the help of usa israel can not do this .
we all have seen thousands of pictures of cruelty against these innocent people .
do n't forget the un ordinance to give back the arab land .
yoosaf , india wow !
so many people , few of which are israelis , have so much to say about this .
the truth is , a lot of israelis did n't even vote , some were protesting , some could n't decide , some ca n't really see the deference , sharon , barak , that is n't the problem .
it does n't matter who will lead israel in the next 4 years , what matters is that we really want to live in peace , only peace takes at least 2 partners . . .
we just do n't have a partner , as it seems that 's too bad .
amir , israel ultimately israel would have to give the arab land back as per the requirements of u.n resolutions .
history shows when 12 year old boys start dying for a right cause , they can never be defeated .
israel must understand this .
usman mir , cambridge leaders can no longer mingle with the populations they supposedly represent , and must hide behind massive security devices and forces miles fusco there is a very disturbing arch-conservative trend in government today , epitomized in the us as lead by mr bush and in israel by mr sharon , toward the total security state .
suspension of civil rights , in the name of security , is acceptable to citizens in fear .
leaders can no longer mingle with the populations they supposedly represent , and must hide behind massive security devices and forces .
is it not to be expected , then , that some frustrated citizens will express their anger the only way they can - by protest and violence of their own ?
miles fusco mr. sharon was freely elected by israeli people as pm and he will remain there as their leader as long as they want him .
john mac acuek , nsw , australia can there really be peace ?
lets look at the entire scenario - on the one hand we have corrupt officials on the palestinian side , who have been known to be siphoning off millions from the various charities ref the various reports in the news week and other reputed magazines , and on the other a leader who 's known to be a hard hitting general .
what a combination .
raymond j , india your comments before we went on air sharon 's presence alone is enough to spur further violence .
israel voted for this man so be it .
it is their right to do so .
let them do this without the $ 10 billion per year that the state of israel receives from the american taxpayer .
my tax dollars do not need to go to hypocrites .
jack johnson , usa sharon is a throwback to an era when leaders pursued personal visions of glory , instead of national policy .
sharon bears a strong resemblance to medieval kings , pursuing their own tiny slice of power at the expense of their subjects .
it 's a pity that he was chosen to lead a modern nuclear power , with the title ' prime minister . '
he would be more appropriately titled ' caesar . '
dan andrews , cairo , egypt i seems to me that sharon is the wrong man for this job to much of a hawk it seems that the arab community will not like it .
jery gallo , burlington , usa where is the palestinian mandela ?
they need him - not the gun paul , gaborone , botswana it seems to me like the international opinion on the israeli crisis can never be objective .
how can anything except a larger conflict be expected when everyone approaches the question with their own bias ?
seems to me like the israelis elect leaders in response to what is going on around them .
wars and rumours of uprising brought sharon .
has the world already forgotten what they allowed to happen to the jews , the very issue that caused the blockade running and their declaration of statehood ?
why does no one bring in the factor of the legitimate israeli preoccupation with security ?
a peaceful arab approach might solve the problem .
analogies between israel and apartheid in south africa have been made .
where is the palestinian mandela ?
they need him - not the gun .
paul , gaborone , botswana what everyone conveniently forgets is that the palestinians were party to their own misfortune , preferring in 1948 to await the outcome of the arab invasion in refugee camps than settle down and work with the israelis .
it is also convenient to call sharon a war criminal when he has not in any case been indicted for war crimes .
the ' 82 massacres were not carried out by him but by lebanese phalangist militias .
his resignation was simply an acceptance of indirect responsibility as defence minister .
i personally do not believe sharon wants peace but then neither does arafat .
why else would you allow kids to throw stones at soldiers or refuse to negotiate with barak ?
emeka , uk / nigeria ariel sharon has done some things which might define him as a war criminal .
so has arafat .
but he is a pragmatic politician , and i do n't believe he wants a war with the arab world .
he will , like netanyahu , try to slow down the peace process .
let us remember that perhaps the biggest shift in israeli politics in past years is that likud has become pro-peace .
the fact that ariel sharon would run a campaign as a likud candidate on the basis of bringing peace is in itself revolutionary and signifies that though the pm is a right-winger , the momentum of the israel policy has a leftward bend and will thus force sharon to form a nug if he wishes to make it until the end of the year .
michael brenner , poughkeepsie , ny the palestinians ca n't compromise any more simply because they have nothing more to compromise ahmed , madison , usa " the arabs missed the boat " , " the arabs do n't want peace " , " the israelis have gone as far as they can go " .
these are the kinds of statements some in the western world keep blindly repeating and they puzzle me .
this is exactly as somebody taking over your home by force then offers you the basement and says " this is as far as i can go with you ! " and when you refuse this and demand your full rights then you are " missing the boat " or " denying peace " .
i would like to remind the same people that the palestinians started with the recognition of the state of israel -lrb- compare the israelis refusing even to mention an independent palestinian state -rrb- , the palestinian authority started even to arrest their own people -lrb- bringing much opposition from the inside -rrb- for the sake of continuing the peace talks , and still they " do n't want peace " .
the palestinians ca n't compromise any more simply because they have nothing more to compromise .
ahmed , madison , usa jerusalem belongs to all three religions .
jews keep referring that jerusalem is all theirs in its entirety .
the torah , the bible , and koran tell that jerusalem is all of ours , yet the argument for the peace process was that occupied territories after the illegal acquisition in the six day war , the un resolution 242 of 1967 says all captured lands in the six day war must be returned .
israel ignored it as well as other un resolutions .
this brings us to mr. sharon .
i have nothing against visiting a holy site , but mr. sharon is n't just any ordinary jew , he was the cause of these violent uprisings .
mr sharon is not going to be easily accepted by arabs , until he proves that he is after peace .
it 's been a long road of violence , and i believe that both arabs and israelis are tired of war , and they need to make peace ; however , the israelis are hard on giving moslems the part of the holy land that belongs to them and the whole mess ends .
so if mr. sharon knows what 's good for him , he 'll pursue the peace other wise war .
mostafa , egyptian in the usa sooner or later , there must be something like peace in the middle east , taking into account the aspirations and rights of all who live there s. d. yana davis , cape girardeau usa those of us old enough to remember probably recall that gloom and forecasts of doom followed the victory of menahem begin and the likud in israeli elections in the seventies .
yet begin - with a lot of help from us president jimmy carter and egyptian president anwar sadat - managed to get israel closer to peace than it ever had been since its inception .
though there is no way of knowing for sure , perhaps ariel sharon will play just such a part in the bloody middle eastern drama .
sooner or later , there must be something like peace in the middle east , taking into account the aspirations and rights of all who live there .
s. d. yana davis , cape girardeau usa israelis on this forum are very keen to talk about their rights .
do n't the palestinians have rights too ?
their rights have been trampled on for the last 50 years while the international community stood by , and indeed armed and financed their oppressor .
finally they have realised that our governments are n't going to do anything for them .
finally they have stood up for themselves , and are paying a terrible price for their freedom - they deserve our support .
raquib , london , uk i am sympathetic to the israeli people , and i do wish them a future of peace and prosperity .
but i ask you to please realise that you can not be occupiers and demand peace from the people you occupy .
also your conflict has caused us , the lebanese , to be occupied by the syrian army .
so non of us here in the middle east is experiencing true freedom .
whether we are christian , jewish , or moslem , we all deserve to live in peace .
and peace is only reachable when the lands that do n't belong to israel are returned to their rightful citizens .
this is a tough neighbourhood we live in , the only way we will survive is if we realise that this land belongs to us all .
i hope sharon will pursue and revive the peace process , but unfortunately i doubt it .
i realise that arafat and other arab leaders have been ruthless and responsible for many deaths , but that does n't clear the way for sharon to be elected prime minister .
the election confirms the israeli misconception as to how peace will be reached .
if peace is desired then international law and united nations resolutions have to be respected .
and people that throw stones are not to be answered by machine guns , tanks , and helicopters .
ziad , beirut , lebanon the israelis have elected a man they believe will work to get the job done , and do it while representing the interests of israel .
the election shows the disgust of the israeli people with barak .
i see people continually calling sharon a war criminal , yet the man who has been leading the palestinians has sponsored terrorism himself .
he has the ability to ring-in his people in order to get things done , yet look what he 's accomplished instead .
barak was willing to give the palestinians far more than previous israeli leaders , yet he still walked out on the peace talks .
i do n't understand why it is that in this day and age , when somebody is willing to stand up for his country and put its interests first , all of a sudden he 's labelled a extremist and a zealot .
ryan corcoran , austin , texas , usa do n't you think that after all , mr sharon is made of same stuff as previous leaders of israel ?
leon blank , brussels , belgium the media point out the connection between ariel sharon and the massacre of sabrah and shatilah , and not always with reference to the lebanese christians who actually committed those terrible deeds : so the main feeling which emerges is that ariel sharon is the very person who did the massacre by himself .
moreover his resignation was due not because he was guilty of the massacre , but he had to resign as any leader should do when a catastrophe occurs when he is in charge .
i did not hear about the reason why israel invaded lebanon and why they were allied to the christian lebanese , which was to fight the terrorist actions from the palestinians against israel and against their lebanese hosts .
it does not justify the massacre of innocent civilian victims in the camps and does not make ariel sharon a saint .
but it brings into a better perspective those facts in the past , which are generally used to judge the new prime minister of israel .
the question based on that , do n't you think that after all , mr sharon is made of same stuff -lrb- good or bad -rrb- as previous leaders of israel ?
leon blank , brussels , belgium the arabs and all their supporters will do well to hold their peace before they accuse our leader as a war criminal .
arab and muslim leaders , past and present , have set such records of butchering their own people -lrb- including palestinians -rrb- that israel will never be able to break .
they also have to understand that we are not impressed when they explain to us that we are racist occupants who have nothing to do in jerusalem , hebron , judea and tel-aviv .
it 's hard to explain to arabs , but the westerners here should understand that democracy means loud arguments and disagreements .
they also should get into their heads that we have our values that no one is allowed to trample upon .
and they should know that we do not like when somebody is killing us , lynching us , blowing us up - even if this somebody happens to be underage kid with nothing but hate on his mind .
arik , jerusalem , israel the prospects for peace are gloomy as long as global politics remains steeped in dishonesty and greed tim , london , uk it is a real tragedy what is sanctioned by the mere mention of the word ' democracy ' .
sharon was elected in a democratic fashion ; therefore we may all turn a blind eye to his past actions .
of course , democracy has nothing to do with it .
our ally is an ally when our interests are at stake .
we 've seen it all before .
the british government knew all about saddam hussein and his actions when they considered it acceptable to sell him weapons .
he was their ally , despite his known human rights abuses .
people like sharon , both the ' democratically ' elected and the autocratic , will continue to find support for years and years to come , no matter if justice or human rights are compromised .
" israel is the only democracy in the middle east ¿ " so what ?
many of us know that when algeria 's democratic elections in 1992 looked set to bring a muslim party to power , they were cancelled and the ' democratic ' powers turned a blind eye .
it is all about greed , and little else .
we had riots on the streets of britain throughout the 1990s , with youths throwing bottles and bricks at the police .
nobody would ever have suggested that it is okay for the police to fire live ammunition back .
and yet it is sanctioned in democratic israel , even against people with legitimate cause to protest , because israel is an ally .
the prospects for peace ?
let 's talk about honesty and justice first .
sharon , even israel , is not the only problem .
the prospects for peace are gloomy as long as global politics remains steeped in dishonesty and greed .
tim , london , uk could anyone answer my question ?
who among all the israeli prime ministers has not committed crimes and massacres ?
now we are going back to the endless cycle of hatred and revenge .
the peace process will take another century or maybe more because the massacres will continue .
salwa , lebanon in response to ariel 's -lrb- ann arbor , usa -rrb- statement about a single moslem country not electing its ruler democratically-well how about indonesia and bangladesh to name two ?
incidentally , like israel , these countries have had corruption scandals with their elected rulers , and also like israel they have occasionally violated human rights and have not always been sensitive to their minorities .
m. m. zaman , uk in us the bombing in israel will continue as long as the injustice continues against the people of palestine .
if the violence was closer to home for the uk and us then they would seek a quicker resolution to the problem .
the western world will continue to support the jews as long as the problem does not crop up in their own back yard .
robin cook was quick to condemn col. gaddafi for not following un instructions , why is he not so open in condemning israel for violating un resolutions , i wonder ?
n akram , london , uk it 's interesting that sharon visits a holy site , causing the intifada , which causes barak to call an election , which leads to sharon , the man who started it all , becoming prime minister .
a cynic might think he planned it all ...
cg , swindon , uk what direction the peace process takes will not only depend on ariel sharon but the entire international community rbd , india to dave : wolves do help protect chickens ... that 's what we have in dogs and it is the responsibility of the international community to bring out the dog in the wolf that sharon has been all along .
what direction the peace process takes will not only depend on ariel sharon but the entire international community .
rbd , india how can the israelis be called murderers when thousands of arabs live in the state of israel without harm .
how can israel sit back if the whole of the so-called muslim world is seeking for their destruction .
how can the israelis sit back when the very people who cry for peace are calling for the total destruction of israel ?
not until people stop being biased in the arab-israeli conflict will peace be realized in the middle east .
philip , seattle , usa palestinians do n't have to accept the best offer and they should n't because they 've given up enough rights hesham , new zealand it amazes me when people here keep saying that the palestinians have recklessly missed their best and only chance for peace .
palestinians do n't have to accept the best offer and they should n't because they 've given up enough rights and all what they want / deserve is simply the implementation of the un resolutions .
arafat does n't own the palestinians and hence has no right of giving up the right of return for the refugees ; neither does he own the noble sanctuary to give it away .
he , also , is n't obliged to comply with the wishes of some double-standard world leaders and " significant " figures .
of course he has a responsibility of preventing bloodshed but it was once said , and this notion is unfortunately still valid , what was taken by force ca n't be retrieved except by force .
hesham , new zealand arafat and the palestinians have backed the wrong horse again .
during the gulf war they backed saddam and their so called " brother " arabs punished them by expelling palestinians and cutting off funds to the plo .
now arafat backs violence and gets sharon .
barak was even willing to concede jerusalem and arafat wanted more .
well you ca n't always get what you want .
palestinian refugees can be resettled and compensated .
where are their " arab brothers " when they need financial help the most ?
israel is not going to disappear or become weaker .
the militant arabs have pushed israel too far , israel will strike back .
vum khan mang , wharton , us we wanted someone who will be good for us - not for the world .
sounds bad ?
tough !
shlomo m. , israel , jerusalem reading part of the comments in this section i would like to ask one question - are we , the israelis , making this peace for the whole world - or for ourselves ?
the whole world , sometimes it seems , likes us when we give up , when we are humble .
but when we stand by our rights , by what is holy for us , and for every jew in the whole world - then we are dangerous , we are against peace .
why is it that an arab murdering a jew expresses his ' frustration ' , and an israeli soldier , returning fire to his attacker is ' targeting little arab children ' ?
ariel sharon was elected pm because barak represented to many israelis a feeble , coward , foolish person , that keeps on talking to the arabs , while they shoot at israeli citizens , while they lie , while they break every agreement ever signed with them , and while they teach their children to kill and hate - and not peace .
we wanted someone who will be good for us - not for the world .
sounds bad ?
tough !
shlomo m. , israel , jerusalem the situation in the middle east has dragged on forever .
the only way to put an end to it is if both religions treat each other with equality .
judaism and islam are very similar faiths , it is sad to see that people who have practically the same faith can be so different .
the israelis should allow the refugees , that they pushed out so long ago , to return to their land , the only reason they are n't doing so is because they do not want to give up the jewish majority .
is it the palestinian 's fault that he / she is a muslim , should they be condemned to refugee camps just because of their faith ?
it is sad that the un is doing nothing to quash the fighting .
if they impose sanctions on israel to force it to accept the refugees then most of the quarrels will end .
the israelis are being selfish in a sense that they believe that the land is theirs , muslims also consider the land sacred .
anna , canada israel is not viable in the long term without the trust of her neighbours , and is currently doing little to inspire this trust .
mick , uk one day there will be either a peace along the lines of what was already on the table , or a middle east destroyed by war .
the first scenario will be possible after sharon is gone , but we might never get there since this man might trigger off the second scenario before that .
but this ugly occupation wo n't last .
blame goes to both sides , but let 's not forget that sharon got exactly what he planned for when he went to the temple mount on 28 september : palestinian violence that makes him look like the savior of his nation .
it is sad that his malicious intentions worked out this well .
stephen , washington dc , usa any newly elected leader will try to " start as he means to go on " especially in such a political powder keg , so what has sharon done so far ?
in his victory speech , he talked about " real peace and stability " - well , talk is cheap , it 's actions that really matter .
in the 2 days since his victory he has managed to anger both the egyptian and jordanian governments - is this an indication of what 's to come ?
odarka , manchester , uk i read a lot here about palestinians having no right of return .
seems a bit rich from people promoting a country that has the right of return at its foundation .
paul killick , uk every time that israel stands for its right or shows some force you do n't like it yehuda ben-ya 'akov , israel as an israeli i am amazed of the hatred that i read here towards israel and its new leader ariel sharon .
any of you that thinks that sharon is a war criminal have ever thought who is arafat .
arafat 's hands are full of jewish blood .
he was and still is the partner of saddam hussein who has killed hundreds of thousands of his own people .
do you know how many palestinians where murdered by king hussein ?
do you know how many thousands of syrians where murdered by their own president assad in hama ?
do you know how many are murdered every day in algeria by muslim extremists ?
many of you would like to finish what has started in europe in the second world war when 6 million jews were murdered .
every time that israel stands for its right or shows some force you do n't like it .
you are used to seeing jews only as lambs .
you all know that the land of israel belongs to the people of israel .
remember that jordan is actually 3/4 of palestine and 2/3 of its people are palestinians so , what more do you want from us ?
peace will come only when the arabs recognize the rights of the jewish people on the land of israel and when they themselves adopt the democratic system to the benefit of their own people and the whole region .
yehuda ben-ya 'akov , givat 'aim israel in your article on the palestinian refugees ' right of return you make no mention of the millions of jewish people who were forced to leave arab countries - including egypt , syria , lebanon and iraq since the troubles have started .
no negotiations can take place without these people being duly compensated .
the most appropriate suggestion could be that each jew thrown out of a country could cancel out the right of return of a palestinian thrown out of palestine / israel - the figures would roughly cancel each other out .
there is also the fact of financial losses - you will find that the jews living in arab countries lost a lot more in economic terms than the arabs in palestine / israel .
davide barzilai , london , england it 's time now that the rest of the world stands firm towards israel and forces them to accept the un resolutions albert , edinburgh , uk please do not forget that there are un resolutions -lrb- the withdrawal of israel from all the occupied land , including east jerusalem and the return of the refugees to their home -rrb- .
if israel wants lasting peace it 's very clear what they need to do .
by electing sharon , the people of israel think that they need to be firm with the palestinians .
they get it wrong .
it 's time now that the rest of the world stands firm towards israel and forces them to accept the un resolutions .
albert , edinburgh , uk sharon has declared negotiations will not commence from where barak concluded .
given sharon 's hawkish and semi-racist attitudes towards the arabs , it is unlikely we 'll see any productive measures coming out of israel in his term .
let 's hope the years since his military career have given him some newfound wisdom regarding his dealings with the palestinians .
sameer , united states the entire world desperately needs to understand that the very man who provoked and was responsible for the latest 4 months of uprising and bloodshed has been elected to power by the israeli people .
the implications of this are indeed very disturbing .
it makes you wonder , of the " agenda for peace " that jewish people have for both themselves and the palestinians .
in any decent , democratic country tried this man would be tried for war crimes and other atrocities against the palestinians .
and yet , we see him on the forefront of israeli politics as our new prime minister .
these two facts paint a very grim picture for the future of peace in the middle east .
indeed this is a sad day not just for jews and arabs , but for the entire world .
fozieh elamad , toronto , canada the people of israel no longer believe in the willingness of yasser arafat to stop the terror and make peace ilya lisansky , boston , usa the west has been exerting all the pressure it could for ten years to force a peace agreement onto israel and her neighbours .
unfortunately the language of compromise is foreign to the regime of yasser arafat .
the people of israel voted down ehud barak because they no longer believe in the willingness of yasser arafat to stop the terror and make peace .
the arabs have vast lands in their possession , the jewish people a small piece , israel .
they have the right to safety in their own homeland , and ariel sharon will deliver it .
ilya lisansky , boston , usa as an " arab " with both " arab " and jewish friends , i feel that sharon bodes ill for both parties involved in the conflict .
it is the lack of their basic human rights that palestinians , even the children , feel compelled to protest .
how much does peace cost ?
how many lives and how many resources will be wasted ?
may god bless those with truly peaceful intentions .
hypatia , usa having signed the oslo agreement , the palestinian regime violated each and every provision of the accord .
they have created a 40,000-strong army , educated their children about jihad against israel , engaged in terror and lynching and demanded more and more .
yes , the temple mount is the third most sacred place for the moslems .
this is not the reason for them to have sovereignty over it .
the same place is the first and the only sacred jewish place .
yes , 700,000 arabs went into exile in 1948 .
the same number of jews were expelled at the same time from syria , lebanon , egypt , iraq and north africa .
there was a population exchange , simple as that .
sharon was elected democratically .
show me a single arab or , for that matter , moslem country that can say the same about its ruler .
ariel , ann arbor usa i am hopeful that sharon will negotiate an effective peace from a position of strength david , usa all this characterization of sharon as a " fascist " or some kind of monster is sheer nonsense .
he has been demonized by a nervous and gullible western media .
sharon is an old soldier it 's true - and a tough opponent of the arabs on numerous battlefields .
but he also wants peace - just not peace at any price .
in this he is perfectly in tune with most israelis as witness his electoral land-slide victory .
i am hopeful that sharon will negotiate an effective peace from a position of strength , not weakness .
this will be a peace that insures israel 's security , not a peace which relinquishes everything israel has worked and fought for over fifty years .
now is the time for a national unity government with labour led by shimon peres who is both a friend of sharon 's and a political opponent .
together they can steer israel and the palestinians towards a peace deal which will last .
david , usa many of us who voted for sharon feel that there is an absence of peace .
the palestinian authority has unceasingly poured forth hatred of israel and jews through its education system and media networks .
at the moment the only people talking about war are the arabs .
israelis feel that barak offered yasser arafat the most he could but even that was n't good enough and the response was the violence which erupted last year .
we all hope and pray for peace daily .
malcolm palmer , bet shemesh , israel mike in calgary , ariel sharon is not a russian immigrant to israel .
he was born in 1928 in a moshav -lrb- agricultural kibbutz -rrb- near tel aviv ; land legally acquired and hardly " stolen " in the " colonial " manner that he so histrionically describes .
sharon has many and various faults and i would never have supported him to further any peace dialogue in the region .
however mis-informed people must realise that there was a continual jewish presence in this region for thousands of years especially jerusalem and hebron .
this is not including jews who immigrated there and bought their land from arab landowners in the 18th and 19th centuries .
it is interesting to note and is factually correct that people such as ariel sharon were themselves palestinians - jewish palestinians .
jo bell , london , england i have a hard time understanding how people can say arafat was wrong in not accepting barak 's peace proposals .
true , barak went further than any other israeli leader in offering concessions , but they were still not in line with the security council resolutions put forth decades ago .
israelis must realize that these resolutions will not be forgotten by the international community .
they will never have peace without implementing them .
they have got to play by the same rules as the rest of the world .
ariel sharon 's attitude will not bring peace .
i pray for the innocents on both sides that he will not be in power long enough to get too many people killed .
jason , usa it 's a shame to vote for a man with such a track record .
i wish the people of the middle east good luck .
peace .
s. kay , sierra leone spare a thought for those living under an already brutally efficient occupation which is about to be invigorated by a man whose exploits differ from those of slobodan milosoveic in scale only , not ambition raman dinesh , uk those who advocate greater " security " for israel show , through their partisan comments , that for them israel will always be vindicated in whatever actions it takes and the palestinians will always be wrong in whatever they do , for the simple reason that israel is a creation of the " chosen people " .
such an inherently irrational and racist view allows for subscription to beliefs that , e.g arafat deliberately sends palestinian children to be shot , he secretly desires war all the time and that he very probably eats jewish babies .
equally it forms the basis for saying the palestinians were too greedy by rejecting barak 's " peace " offer , palestinians do n't deserve a state .
if the lessons of history are correct , perpetual slavery and occupation can not persist -let 's hope that 's correct .
meanwhile spare a thought for those living under an already brutally efficient occupation which is about to be invigorated by a man whose exploits differ from those of slobodan milosoveic in scale only , not ambition .
raman dinesh , uk if peace means total capitulation , arafat has failed a great opportunity to bring " peace " .
what kind of peace do israelis expect .
should 3.5 million people continue living in camps and accept the biggest ethnic cleansing since ww2 ?
should 1 billion muslims be denied their right to visit the third most holiest place in islam ?
what barak offered to palestinians was the least he could do .
under his power jewish settlements grew like they never had before and the golan heights , which he promised to hand back to syria remained occupied .
i just want to remind some people that the number of palestinians who where killed in the conflict was at least 7 or 8 times higher than that of israelis .
unfortunately , the life of a palestinian teenager is regarded worthless in the western world .
peyman dadgar , tehran , iran let us not forget that sharon was elected in a democratic fashion neil , canada let us not forget that sharon was elected in a democratic fashion .
israel is the only democracy in the middle east and we should respect the outcome .
the arabs decided by their own free will not to vote .
i hope for peace in the region .
i hope the palestinians eventually become sincere in their peace efforts .
talk is easy to come by , and it seems like that is all they are doing neil , canada it does n't matter who the leader of israel is .
peace will come only when there is justice for the palestinian people .
real justice , where israel withdraws to the pre-1967 borders .
israel has to withdraw from all occupied lands including east jerusalem , not part of it .
indonesia had to withdraw from all of east timor .
why is the rule different for israel ?
ramesh k , australia reading the comments made me realise that westerners tend to think that everyone is like them .
well , this is not northern europe , this is the middle east .
weakness can invite war , but fear can enforce peace .
dan l , usa related to this story : barak concedes to sharon -lrb- 06 feb 01 -pipe- middle east -rrb- internet links : internet links : palestine liberation organisation -pipe- israeli government -pipe- palestine information -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- talking point contents : forum -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- talking point -pipe- sharon 's victory : what next ? low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : talking point front page world uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point forum in depth audiovideo adnan zadiki " it 's a jewish democracy and it needs to be engineered . " real 28k dr yuval steinitz " according to some people , jews have no right to exist . " real 28k abdul hardy " the route of the problem is the disenfranchisement of the palestine people . " real 28k perwez akhter , usa " sharon can prove himself as a different person . " real 28k saeed khan , london " how can you have peace when someone has such a dark past . " real 28k dr. yuval steinitz " they are putting forward such ideas that make the survival of the israeli state very difficult . " real 28k stephen pohlmann , tel aviv " it is a stalemate .
there is no short-term solution . " real 28k issac shier , israel " we ca n't suddenly be friends after so many years of being belligerent . " real 28k monday , 19 february , 2001 , 08:38 gmt sharon 's victory : what next ?
select the link below to watch talking point on air ariel sharon is to become israel 's next prime minister .
mr sharon has won a landslide victory over the incumbent prime minister , ehud barak .
israelis who voted for ariel sharon want him to get tough with the palestinians and bring to an end the months of violence .
palestinians know that dealing with the right-winger will be more difficult than with mr barak .
their leaders have vowed to intensify their uprising .
what hope is there for any progress in the peace process and an end to the violence now that ariel sharon is taking over the reins of power in israel ?
we were debating this issue on our global phone-in programme " talking point on air " .
robin lustig was joined by likud mp dr. yuval steinitz live from jerusalem .
your comments since the programme your comments during the programme your comments before the programme this talking point is now closed .
a selection of your comments are posted below .
the people who live in the past do n't make the future morris , uk one has to remember that there is realism and idealism .
while it may be true that israel did n't have a right to occupy the land it now has , it must be remembered that there are people living there now .
the people who live in the past do n't make the future .
history is there to be learned from , to be or not to be repeated , but can not be changed .
therefore , by taking the situation as it is now , and trying to work further one can hope to achieve an eternal peace .
morris , uk i ca n't stand sharon and i am not happy he is my pm - but i do n't think the palestinians have a right to complain because 1 -rrb- they put him there and 2 -rrb- arafat 's hands are equally soaked with blood .
maybe one day we 'll both be mature enough to choose leaders on the basis of their peace-making , not their war-mongering .
vered , jerusalem , israel the biggest obstacle to the peace process is not sovereignty over jerusalem : it 's the question of the ' right of return ' .
today 's modern israeli ' democracy ' discriminates against palestinians by giving jews around the world " the right of return " : the right to become citizens of israel , yet refuses to give that option to palestinians who were forced out of their homes during the last several wars .
david koch , jerusalem , israel israelis want a homeland , and i can understand that .
but why force out other peoples from lands that they 've lived in for thousands of years ?
the jews can return , but do it in a peaceful way .
occupy lands that are n't owned by others , and create a true democratic system where all peoples - jews , palestinians , etc . , can freely choose who rules them .
but , of course , most israelis are only interested in forming a jewish country , and that 's why we have all this trouble now .
onn , adelaide , australia israel made peace with egypt and jordan , so it 's not israel 's lack of wanting peace that has brought us to this point .
instead , it 's the palestinian 's lack of desire to stop the hate and killing and lack of will to accept peace with israel .
they had the chance but showed their true colours .
now , israel will defend itself , like any other country facing terrorism .
seal , san diego usa we have lots of legal and illegal hispanics here in southern california with a percentage more than 55 % of the total population .
how about one day they declare southern california to be their own separate country basing that movement on the fact that it belonged to their ancestors -lrb- the spaniards -rrb- way before the americans dwelled it ! ?
how would the world react to that ?
most importantly , how would the southern californians and the other americans react to that ?
why did the world go haywire when iraq invaded kuwait in 1991 ?
according to iraq , kuwait was part of it for hundreds and hundreds of years !
you might argue that actions like that are things of the past -lrb- 18th and 19th centuries -rrb- .
but did it ever occur to you that israel was formed by force just only 53 years back !
the arabs resent the fact that israel was imposed on them .
they resent the fact that during its unwelcome formation , it displaced millions of arabs .
they resent its arrogance regarding the jerusalem issue .
ismail , los angeles , usa peace is about concession benjy , oxford , uk the fact is that barak offered every concession he realistically could .
now , this may not have been quite all that arafat wanted .
however , peace is about concession and arafat must have realised that barak 's offer was the best they have ever received .
in addition , it was always clear that the israeli offer would not be anywhere nearly so generous following the election .
this seems to suggest that arafat did not actually want to sign a peace accord .
benjy , oxford , uk the israelis tried to achieve peace by giving : barak had given the palestinians more then anyone else before him and in response he got riots .
that 's because he showed himself weak and arafat grabbed on to that in split second .
well , israel has tried to approach the problem from the left -lrb- i.e. by giving -rrb- and fail utterly , they 'll now try to approach it from the right .
good luck !
my personal belief , is that , no peace will be achieved as long as arafat is in charge .
ilya elyashkevich , los angeles , us another example of the total detachment from reality by michael , jerusalem , israel - saying the palestinians should stop the violence .
a few questions to put to people who refuse to look reality in the face : who has a trained army shooting at palestinians ?
who has used rockets , missiles and helicopters against the palestinians ?
who is continually and systematically destroying -lrb- bulldozing -rrb- palestinians homes and olive trees ?
james ashby , london , england ariel sharon is not interested in peace , in fact his agenda is to derail the peace process and start another war with its arab neighbours , that is the only way israel can expand its current territory .
by starting another war israel would again gain sympathy from the west who has becoming frustrated with israel 's human rights and undignified arrogance to accept peace with the palestinians .
yasser arafat is in fact a puppet of israel that is the reason he is being jerked around .
it is time palestinian elect a moral leader who is sincere in resolving the issue rather then pretending to be important .
as far as peace in the middle east for now it is dead and a very difficult time is ahead because no matter what palestinian agree to sharon will not accept .
gul khan , usa your comments since the programme there can be no right of return for the palestinians to israel and there can be no negotiations as long as violence continues john megiddo , south africa the so-called occupation is a fallacy .
both groups if anything , have equal rights to the land .
what the palestinians demand is the annihilation of israel - something that can not be given .
had the palestinians desired their own state they could have had it - with some compromises being made .
there can be no right of return for the palestinians to israel and there can be no negotiations as long as violence continues .
john megiddo , south africa throwing stone at israelis army will not bring peace whatsoever , and will not offer places like gaza and others cities being offered by israel former pm .
i believe continuing violence against israel , under mr. sharon will result in a big crisis in the region .
john mac acuek , australia i 'd like to point out to dennis taylor that israel did not steal arab land with force .
the arab countries surrounding israel have declared war on israel a number of times -lrb- 5 or 6 -rrb- and israel has won all these wars taking land in the process .
dan , london , uk each time that i hear experts , politicians and commentators thrash around the arab / israeli conflict i am struck by the naivety of the discussion .
fear has given the state of israel its raison d 'etre and aggressive arrogance its style of diplomacy .
the palestinians have been caught between the disinterest of the arab world at large , the powerful american pro-israeli lobby and the hypocracy of the western world .
both the israelis and palestinians are engaged in a tribal deadlock which has been smeared over with the sophistication of the modern world .
to resolve this deadlock they have both need to recognise whilst their mutual detestation and suspicion may give them identity it is not , and never will permit them to rise above brutality and death .
tony harding , uk what happened to the jews in europe was a separate subject .
but had the allies used more foresight , the israeli / palestinian clash could perhaps have at least been side-stepped stephen pohlmann uk / tel aviv i have never been a sharon supporter .
i am leftist , with the usual swings to the right .
but sharon was the first to remind me of the status of jordan .
recently , a bbc reporter from amman happened to mention in passing that over 50 % of the jordanian population is palestinian .
as far as i know , it is over 60 % .
this is not something to ' pass over ' .
i know of no other nation in the world which has a majority of its population holding on to a different nationality .
and unlike , say the irish americans , they do not consider assimilation ; they remain fervently palestinian .
it is easy to say that the palestinians have many countries where they are considered ' brothers ' , -lrb- although they are not treated very brotherly by them -rrb- , but to say they do not have a homeland is wrong .
and who is responsible ?
who should make more effort to right the wrongs ?
the british and the french , who rewarded their allies against the turks by establishing jordan and iraq , without any real consideration for the indigenous population .
what happened to the jews in europe was a separate subject .
but had the allies used more foresight , the israeli / palestinian clash could perhaps have at least been side-stepped .
stephen pohlmann uk / tel aviv we are only blaming people on both sides who are at fault .
i want to agree with ramesh from australia & betty from israel : in 1948 israel was given a certain area of land , but gradually and with force stole more land from the arabs .
the cause of this violence -lrb- and any -rrb- is religion .
history shows that the jews left the area thousands of years ago , yet they came back .
this to me is discrimination with a capital " d " .
dennis taylor , australia peace between israel and the palestinian 's is very much dependent a whole new ethos in the arab world derek , beit shemesh peace between israel and the palestinian 's is very much dependent a whole new ethos in the arab world .
not until the arab world begins to foster democratic governments where tolerance will emerge , will the masses learn to express themselves less emotionally and more intellectually in a rational framework .
until then arabs will continue to home in on the so-called injustice of israel to focus the attention away from their own countries tragic internal failures away onto israel .
derek , beit shemesh calling israel a democracy is a joke .
how can a country claim to be a democracy when a large part of its populace has been forced out on gun-point , not allowed to return home and denied their right to vote just because they have a different opinion or ethnicity ?
h. jalisi , usa ariel sharon is a war criminal by anyone 's standards , why is the us -lrb- and the uk -rrb- trying to bring to justice one war criminal -lrb- slobodan milosovic -rrb- while shaking hands with another ?
surely a criminal is a criminal ?
armagan akram , london , uk israel wo n't go away and die , and nobody should expect us to michael , jerusalem , israel once again , the comments from people outside israel prove that everybody listens to biased reporting , rather than hearing the truth .
an organisation in israel translates the " official " news bulletins of the palestinians , and if you 'd read the transcripts , you 'd understand why barak had to go , and just regret that he twisted the electoral law to keep netanyahu -lrb- everybody 's real choice -rrb- out of the race .
israel wo n't go away and die , and nobody should expect us to .
and if the palestinians want to be regarded as victims , they should stop the violence , and sit down to talk .
michael , jerusalem , israel although i do n't buy the argument that israel belongs to the jews , just because it says so in a book -lrb- by that rationale , today 's italians can lay claim to the rest of europe ; and native americans own the us -rrb- , the fact of the matter is that israel exists and has to be dealt with .
all arab nations and communities need to accept this reality ...
israel is not going to go away !
similarly , the israelis need to understand that they simply can not have it all their own way ... the palestinians are real people with real needs and aspirations who deserve equal opportunity to excel and develop .
mark m. newdick , usa / uk arafat is now the loser , he pushed for too much and now he has got nothing b cope , manchester uk the world has now seen that it is the palestinians and not the israelis who are the real obstacle to peace .
arafat was offered the most generous concessions ever and he chose to reject them .
the reason , the palestinians want israel 's destruction , nothing that is offered will ever be enough .
arafat is now the loser , he pushed for too much and now he has got nothing = sharon .
it is his own fault .
b cope , manchester uk arafat missed a golden opportunity .
the more barak conceded the more arafat wanted .
it will be some time before israel can reach such a state of negotiation again .
edwin gatt , st. paul 's bay malta your comments during the programme i would like to point to a different perspective : what has been happening to all the money being given to the palestinians by the west ?
the standards of living of the palestinians in gaza and west bank is just as abominable as before and the leadership is getting fat .
no wonder there is rebellion in the street , except that it is wrongfully being fanned towards what is their considered traditional enemy - israel .
claudia nielsen i think usa is responsible for all violence in palestine yoosaf , india i think usa is responsible for all violence in palestine .
they are fooling the world by acting as a mediator .
without the help of usa israel can not do this .
we all have seen thousands of pictures of cruelty against these innocent people .
do n't forget the un ordinance to give back the arab land .
yoosaf , india wow !
so many people , few of which are israelis , have so much to say about this .
the truth is , a lot of israelis did n't even vote , some were protesting , some could n't decide , some ca n't really see the deference , sharon , barak , that is n't the problem .
it does n't matter who will lead israel in the next 4 years , what matters is that we really want to live in peace , only peace takes at least 2 partners . . .
we just do n't have a partner , as it seems that 's too bad .
amir , israel ultimately israel would have to give the arab land back as per the requirements of u.n resolutions .
history shows when 12 year old boys start dying for a right cause , they can never be defeated .
israel must understand this .
usman mir , cambridge leaders can no longer mingle with the populations they supposedly represent , and must hide behind massive security devices and forces miles fusco there is a very disturbing arch-conservative trend in government today , epitomized in the us as lead by mr bush and in israel by mr sharon , toward the total security state .
suspension of civil rights , in the name of security , is acceptable to citizens in fear .
leaders can no longer mingle with the populations they supposedly represent , and must hide behind massive security devices and forces .
is it not to be expected , then , that some frustrated citizens will express their anger the only way they can - by protest and violence of their own ?
miles fusco mr. sharon was freely elected by israeli people as pm and he will remain there as their leader as long as they want him .
john mac acuek , nsw , australia can there really be peace ?
lets look at the entire scenario - on the one hand we have corrupt officials on the palestinian side , who have been known to be siphoning off millions from the various charities ref the various reports in the news week and other reputed magazines , and on the other a leader who 's known to be a hard hitting general .
what a combination .
raymond j , india your comments before we went on air sharon 's presence alone is enough to spur further violence .
israel voted for this man so be it .
it is their right to do so .
let them do this without the $ 10 billion per year that the state of israel receives from the american taxpayer .
my tax dollars do not need to go to hypocrites .
jack johnson , usa sharon is a throwback to an era when leaders pursued personal visions of glory , instead of national policy .
sharon bears a strong resemblance to medieval kings , pursuing their own tiny slice of power at the expense of their subjects .
it 's a pity that he was chosen to lead a modern nuclear power , with the title ' prime minister . '
he would be more appropriately titled ' caesar . '
dan andrews , cairo , egypt i seems to me that sharon is the wrong man for this job to much of a hawk it seems that the arab community will not like it .
jery gallo , burlington , usa where is the palestinian mandela ?
they need him - not the gun paul , gaborone , botswana it seems to me like the international opinion on the israeli crisis can never be objective .
how can anything except a larger conflict be expected when everyone approaches the question with their own bias ?
seems to me like the israelis elect leaders in response to what is going on around them .
wars and rumours of uprising brought sharon .
has the world already forgotten what they allowed to happen to the jews , the very issue that caused the blockade running and their declaration of statehood ?
why does no one bring in the factor of the legitimate israeli preoccupation with security ?
a peaceful arab approach might solve the problem .
analogies between israel and apartheid in south africa have been made .
where is the palestinian mandela ?
they need him - not the gun .
paul , gaborone , botswana what everyone conveniently forgets is that the palestinians were party to their own misfortune , preferring in 1948 to await the outcome of the arab invasion in refugee camps than settle down and work with the israelis .
it is also convenient to call sharon a war criminal when he has not in any case been indicted for war crimes .
the ' 82 massacres were not carried out by him but by lebanese phalangist militias .
his resignation was simply an acceptance of indirect responsibility as defence minister .
i personally do not believe sharon wants peace but then neither does arafat .
why else would you allow kids to throw stones at soldiers or refuse to negotiate with barak ?
emeka , uk / nigeria ariel sharon has done some things which might define him as a war criminal .
so has arafat .
but he is a pragmatic politician , and i do n't believe he wants a war with the arab world .
he will , like netanyahu , try to slow down the peace process .
let us remember that perhaps the biggest shift in israeli politics in past years is that likud has become pro-peace .
the fact that ariel sharon would run a campaign as a likud candidate on the basis of bringing peace is in itself revolutionary and signifies that though the pm is a right-winger , the momentum of the israel policy has a leftward bend and will thus force sharon to form a nug if he wishes to make it until the end of the year .
michael brenner , poughkeepsie , ny the palestinians ca n't compromise any more simply because they have nothing more to compromise ahmed , madison , usa " the arabs missed the boat " , " the arabs do n't want peace " , " the israelis have gone as far as they can go " .
these are the kinds of statements some in the western world keep blindly repeating and they puzzle me .
this is exactly as somebody taking over your home by force then offers you the basement and says " this is as far as i can go with you ! " and when you refuse this and demand your full rights then you are " missing the boat " or " denying peace " .
i would like to remind the same people that the palestinians started with the recognition of the state of israel -lrb- compare the israelis refusing even to mention an independent palestinian state -rrb- , the palestinian authority started even to arrest their own people -lrb- bringing much opposition from the inside -rrb- for the sake of continuing the peace talks , and still they " do n't want peace " .
the palestinians ca n't compromise any more simply because they have nothing more to compromise .
ahmed , madison , usa jerusalem belongs to all three religions .
jews keep referring that jerusalem is all theirs in its entirety .
the torah , the bible , and koran tell that jerusalem is all of ours , yet the argument for the peace process was that occupied territories after the illegal acquisition in the six day war , the un resolution 242 of 1967 says all captured lands in the six day war must be returned .
israel ignored it as well as other un resolutions .
this brings us to mr. sharon .
i have nothing against visiting a holy site , but mr. sharon is n't just any ordinary jew , he was the cause of these violent uprisings .
mr sharon is not going to be easily accepted by arabs , until he proves that he is after peace .
it 's been a long road of violence , and i believe that both arabs and israelis are tired of war , and they need to make peace ; however , the israelis are hard on giving moslems the part of the holy land that belongs to them and the whole mess ends .
so if mr. sharon knows what 's good for him , he 'll pursue the peace other wise war .
mostafa , egyptian in the usa sooner or later , there must be something like peace in the middle east , taking into account the aspirations and rights of all who live there s. d. yana davis , cape girardeau usa those of us old enough to remember probably recall that gloom and forecasts of doom followed the victory of menahem begin and the likud in israeli elections in the seventies .
yet begin - with a lot of help from us president jimmy carter and egyptian president anwar sadat - managed to get israel closer to peace than it ever had been since its inception .
though there is no way of knowing for sure , perhaps ariel sharon will play just such a part in the bloody middle eastern drama .
sooner or later , there must be something like peace in the middle east , taking into account the aspirations and rights of all who live there .
s. d. yana davis , cape girardeau usa israelis on this forum are very keen to talk about their rights .
do n't the palestinians have rights too ?
their rights have been trampled on for the last 50 years while the international community stood by , and indeed armed and financed their oppressor .
finally they have realised that our governments are n't going to do anything for them .
finally they have stood up for themselves , and are paying a terrible price for their freedom - they deserve our support .
raquib , london , uk i am sympathetic to the israeli people , and i do wish them a future of peace and prosperity .
but i ask you to please realise that you can not be occupiers and demand peace from the people you occupy .
also your conflict has caused us , the lebanese , to be occupied by the syrian army .
so non of us here in the middle east is experiencing true freedom .
whether we are christian , jewish , or moslem , we all deserve to live in peace .
and peace is only reachable when the lands that do n't belong to israel are returned to their rightful citizens .
this is a tough neighbourhood we live in , the only way we will survive is if we realise that this land belongs to us all .
i hope sharon will pursue and revive the peace process , but unfortunately i doubt it .
i realise that arafat and other arab leaders have been ruthless and responsible for many deaths , but that does n't clear the way for sharon to be elected prime minister .
the election confirms the israeli misconception as to how peace will be reached .
if peace is desired then international law and united nations resolutions have to be respected .
and people that throw stones are not to be answered by machine guns , tanks , and helicopters .
ziad , beirut , lebanon the israelis have elected a man they believe will work to get the job done , and do it while representing the interests of israel .
the election shows the disgust of the israeli people with barak .
i see people continually calling sharon a war criminal , yet the man who has been leading the palestinians has sponsored terrorism himself .
he has the ability to ring-in his people in order to get things done , yet look what he 's accomplished instead .
barak was willing to give the palestinians far more than previous israeli leaders , yet he still walked out on the peace talks .
i do n't understand why it is that in this day and age , when somebody is willing to stand up for his country and put its interests first , all of a sudden he 's labelled a extremist and a zealot .
ryan corcoran , austin , texas , usa do n't you think that after all , mr sharon is made of same stuff as previous leaders of israel ?
leon blank , brussels , belgium the media point out the connection between ariel sharon and the massacre of sabrah and shatilah , and not always with reference to the lebanese christians who actually committed those terrible deeds : so the main feeling which emerges is that ariel sharon is the very person who did the massacre by himself .
moreover his resignation was due not because he was guilty of the massacre , but he had to resign as any leader should do when a catastrophe occurs when he is in charge .
i did not hear about the reason why israel invaded lebanon and why they were allied to the christian lebanese , which was to fight the terrorist actions from the palestinians against israel and against their lebanese hosts .
it does not justify the massacre of innocent civilian victims in the camps and does not make ariel sharon a saint .
but it brings into a better perspective those facts in the past , which are generally used to judge the new prime minister of israel .
the question based on that , do n't you think that after all , mr sharon is made of same stuff -lrb- good or bad -rrb- as previous leaders of israel ?
leon blank , brussels , belgium the arabs and all their supporters will do well to hold their peace before they accuse our leader as a war criminal .
arab and muslim leaders , past and present , have set such records of butchering their own people -lrb- including palestinians -rrb- that israel will never be able to break .
they also have to understand that we are not impressed when they explain to us that we are racist occupants who have nothing to do in jerusalem , hebron , judea and tel-aviv .
it 's hard to explain to arabs , but the westerners here should understand that democracy means loud arguments and disagreements .
they also should get into their heads that we have our values that no one is allowed to trample upon .
and they should know that we do not like when somebody is killing us , lynching us , blowing us up - even if this somebody happens to be underage kid with nothing but hate on his mind .
arik , jerusalem , israel the prospects for peace are gloomy as long as global politics remains steeped in dishonesty and greed tim , london , uk it is a real tragedy what is sanctioned by the mere mention of the word ' democracy ' .
sharon was elected in a democratic fashion ; therefore we may all turn a blind eye to his past actions .
of course , democracy has nothing to do with it .
our ally is an ally when our interests are at stake .
we 've seen it all before .
the british government knew all about saddam hussein and his actions when they considered it acceptable to sell him weapons .
he was their ally , despite his known human rights abuses .
people like sharon , both the ' democratically ' elected and the autocratic , will continue to find support for years and years to come , no matter if justice or human rights are compromised .
" israel is the only democracy in the middle east ¿ " so what ?
many of us know that when algeria 's democratic elections in 1992 looked set to bring a muslim party to power , they were cancelled and the ' democratic ' powers turned a blind eye .
it is all about greed , and little else .
we had riots on the streets of britain throughout the 1990s , with youths throwing bottles and bricks at the police .
nobody would ever have suggested that it is okay for the police to fire live ammunition back .
and yet it is sanctioned in democratic israel , even against people with legitimate cause to protest , because israel is an ally .
the prospects for peace ?
let 's talk about honesty and justice first .
sharon , even israel , is not the only problem .
the prospects for peace are gloomy as long as global politics remains steeped in dishonesty and greed .
tim , london , uk could anyone answer my question ?
who among all the israeli prime ministers has not committed crimes and massacres ?
now we are going back to the endless cycle of hatred and revenge .
the peace process will take another century or maybe more because the massacres will continue .
salwa , lebanon in response to ariel 's -lrb- ann arbor , usa -rrb- statement about a single moslem country not electing its ruler democratically-well how about indonesia and bangladesh to name two ?
incidentally , like israel , these countries have had corruption scandals with their elected rulers , and also like israel they have occasionally violated human rights and have not always been sensitive to their minorities .
m. m. zaman , uk in us the bombing in israel will continue as long as the injustice continues against the people of palestine .
if the violence was closer to home for the uk and us then they would seek a quicker resolution to the problem .
the western world will continue to support the jews as long as the problem does not crop up in their own back yard .
robin cook was quick to condemn col. gaddafi for not following un instructions , why is he not so open in condemning israel for violating un resolutions , i wonder ?
n akram , london , uk it 's interesting that sharon visits a holy site , causing the intifada , which causes barak to call an election , which leads to sharon , the man who started it all , becoming prime minister .
a cynic might think he planned it all ...
cg , swindon , uk what direction the peace process takes will not only depend on ariel sharon but the entire international community rbd , india to dave : wolves do help protect chickens ... that 's what we have in dogs and it is the responsibility of the international community to bring out the dog in the wolf that sharon has been all along .
what direction the peace process takes will not only depend on ariel sharon but the entire international community .
rbd , india how can the israelis be called murderers when thousands of arabs live in the state of israel without harm .
how can israel sit back if the whole of the so-called muslim world is seeking for their destruction .
how can the israelis sit back when the very people who cry for peace are calling for the total destruction of israel ?
not until people stop being biased in the arab-israeli conflict will peace be realized in the middle east .
philip , seattle , usa palestinians do n't have to accept the best offer and they should n't because they 've given up enough rights hesham , new zealand it amazes me when people here keep saying that the palestinians have recklessly missed their best and only chance for peace .
palestinians do n't have to accept the best offer and they should n't because they 've given up enough rights and all what they want / deserve is simply the implementation of the un resolutions .
arafat does n't own the palestinians and hence has no right of giving up the right of return for the refugees ; neither does he own the noble sanctuary to give it away .
he , also , is n't obliged to comply with the wishes of some double-standard world leaders and " significant " figures .
of course he has a responsibility of preventing bloodshed but it was once said , and this notion is unfortunately still valid , what was taken by force ca n't be retrieved except by force .
hesham , new zealand arafat and the palestinians have backed the wrong horse again .
during the gulf war they backed saddam and their so called " brother " arabs punished them by expelling palestinians and cutting off funds to the plo .
now arafat backs violence and gets sharon .
barak was even willing to concede jerusalem and arafat wanted more .
well you ca n't always get what you want .
palestinian refugees can be resettled and compensated .
where are their " arab brothers " when they need financial help the most ?
israel is not going to disappear or become weaker .
the militant arabs have pushed israel too far , israel will strike back .
vum khan mang , wharton , us we wanted someone who will be good for us - not for the world .
sounds bad ?
tough !
shlomo m. , israel , jerusalem reading part of the comments in this section i would like to ask one question - are we , the israelis , making this peace for the whole world - or for ourselves ?
the whole world , sometimes it seems , likes us when we give up , when we are humble .
but when we stand by our rights , by what is holy for us , and for every jew in the whole world - then we are dangerous , we are against peace .
why is it that an arab murdering a jew expresses his ' frustration ' , and an israeli soldier , returning fire to his attacker is ' targeting little arab children ' ?
ariel sharon was elected pm because barak represented to many israelis a feeble , coward , foolish person , that keeps on talking to the arabs , while they shoot at israeli citizens , while they lie , while they break every agreement ever signed with them , and while they teach their children to kill and hate - and not peace .
we wanted someone who will be good for us - not for the world .
sounds bad ?
tough !
shlomo m. , israel , jerusalem the situation in the middle east has dragged on forever .
the only way to put an end to it is if both religions treat each other with equality .
judaism and islam are very similar faiths , it is sad to see that people who have practically the same faith can be so different .
the israelis should allow the refugees , that they pushed out so long ago , to return to their land , the only reason they are n't doing so is because they do not want to give up the jewish majority .
is it the palestinian 's fault that he / she is a muslim , should they be condemned to refugee camps just because of their faith ?
it is sad that the un is doing nothing to quash the fighting .
if they impose sanctions on israel to force it to accept the refugees then most of the quarrels will end .
the israelis are being selfish in a sense that they believe that the land is theirs , muslims also consider the land sacred .
anna , canada israel is not viable in the long term without the trust of her neighbours , and is currently doing little to inspire this trust .
mick , uk one day there will be either a peace along the lines of what was already on the table , or a middle east destroyed by war .
the first scenario will be possible after sharon is gone , but we might never get there since this man might trigger off the second scenario before that .
but this ugly occupation wo n't last .
blame goes to both sides , but let 's not forget that sharon got exactly what he planned for when he went to the temple mount on 28 september : palestinian violence that makes him look like the savior of his nation .
it is sad that his malicious intentions worked out this well .
stephen , washington dc , usa any newly elected leader will try to " start as he means to go on " especially in such a political powder keg , so what has sharon done so far ?
in his victory speech , he talked about " real peace and stability " - well , talk is cheap , it 's actions that really matter .
in the 2 days since his victory he has managed to anger both the egyptian and jordanian governments - is this an indication of what 's to come ?
odarka , manchester , uk i read a lot here about palestinians having no right of return .
seems a bit rich from people promoting a country that has the right of return at its foundation .
paul killick , uk every time that israel stands for its right or shows some force you do n't like it yehuda ben-ya 'akov , israel as an israeli i am amazed of the hatred that i read here towards israel and its new leader ariel sharon .
any of you that thinks that sharon is a war criminal have ever thought who is arafat .
arafat 's hands are full of jewish blood .
he was and still is the partner of saddam hussein who has killed hundreds of thousands of his own people .
do you know how many palestinians where murdered by king hussein ?
do you know how many thousands of syrians where murdered by their own president assad in hama ?
do you know how many are murdered every day in algeria by muslim extremists ?
many of you would like to finish what has started in europe in the second world war when 6 million jews were murdered .
every time that israel stands for its right or shows some force you do n't like it .
you are used to seeing jews only as lambs .
you all know that the land of israel belongs to the people of israel .
remember that jordan is actually 3/4 of palestine and 2/3 of its people are palestinians so , what more do you want from us ?
peace will come only when the arabs recognize the rights of the jewish people on the land of israel and when they themselves adopt the democratic system to the benefit of their own people and the whole region .
yehuda ben-ya 'akov , givat 'aim israel in your article on the palestinian refugees ' right of return you make no mention of the millions of jewish people who were forced to leave arab countries - including egypt , syria , lebanon and iraq since the troubles have started .
no negotiations can take place without these people being duly compensated .
the most appropriate suggestion could be that each jew thrown out of a country could cancel out the right of return of a palestinian thrown out of palestine / israel - the figures would roughly cancel each other out .
there is also the fact of financial losses - you will find that the jews living in arab countries lost a lot more in economic terms than the arabs in palestine / israel .
davide barzilai , london , england it 's time now that the rest of the world stands firm towards israel and forces them to accept the un resolutions albert , edinburgh , uk please do not forget that there are un resolutions -lrb- the withdrawal of israel from all the occupied land , including east jerusalem and the return of the refugees to their home -rrb- .
if israel wants lasting peace it 's very clear what they need to do .
by electing sharon , the people of israel think that they need to be firm with the palestinians .
they get it wrong .
it 's time now that the rest of the world stands firm towards israel and forces them to accept the un resolutions .
albert , edinburgh , uk sharon has declared negotiations will not commence from where barak concluded .
given sharon 's hawkish and semi-racist attitudes towards the arabs , it is unlikely we 'll see any productive measures coming out of israel in his term .
let 's hope the years since his military career have given him some newfound wisdom regarding his dealings with the palestinians .
sameer , united states the entire world desperately needs to understand that the very man who provoked and was responsible for the latest 4 months of uprising and bloodshed has been elected to power by the israeli people .
the implications of this are indeed very disturbing .
it makes you wonder , of the " agenda for peace " that jewish people have for both themselves and the palestinians .
in any decent , democratic country tried this man would be tried for war crimes and other atrocities against the palestinians .
and yet , we see him on the forefront of israeli politics as our new prime minister .
these two facts paint a very grim picture for the future of peace in the middle east .
indeed this is a sad day not just for jews and arabs , but for the entire world .
fozieh elamad , toronto , canada the people of israel no longer believe in the willingness of yasser arafat to stop the terror and make peace ilya lisansky , boston , usa the west has been exerting all the pressure it could for ten years to force a peace agreement onto israel and her neighbours .
unfortunately the language of compromise is foreign to the regime of yasser arafat .
the people of israel voted down ehud barak because they no longer believe in the willingness of yasser arafat to stop the terror and make peace .
the arabs have vast lands in their possession , the jewish people a small piece , israel .
they have the right to safety in their own homeland , and ariel sharon will deliver it .
ilya lisansky , boston , usa as an " arab " with both " arab " and jewish friends , i feel that sharon bodes ill for both parties involved in the conflict .
it is the lack of their basic human rights that palestinians , even the children , feel compelled to protest .
how much does peace cost ?
how many lives and how many resources will be wasted ?
may god bless those with truly peaceful intentions .
hypatia , usa having signed the oslo agreement , the palestinian regime violated each and every provision of the accord .
they have created a 40,000-strong army , educated their children about jihad against israel , engaged in terror and lynching and demanded more and more .
yes , the temple mount is the third most sacred place for the moslems .
this is not the reason for them to have sovereignty over it .
the same place is the first and the only sacred jewish place .
yes , 700,000 arabs went into exile in 1948 .
the same number of jews were expelled at the same time from syria , lebanon , egypt , iraq and north africa .
there was a population exchange , simple as that .
sharon was elected democratically .
show me a single arab or , for that matter , moslem country that can say the same about its ruler .
ariel , ann arbor usa i
<p>
bbc news -pipe- talking point -pipe- sharon 's victory : what next ? low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : talking point front page world uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point forum in depth audiovideo adnan zadiki " it 's a jewish democracy and it needs to be engineered . " real 28k dr yuval steinitz " according to some people , jews have no right to exist . " real 28k abdul hardy " the route of the problem is the disenfranchisement of the palestine people . " real 28k perwez akhter , usa " sharon can prove himself as a different person . " real 28k saeed khan , london " how can you have peace when someone has such a dark past . " real 28k dr. yuval steinitz " they are putting forward such ideas that make the survival of the israeli state very difficult . " real 28k stephen pohlmann , tel aviv " it is a stalemate .
there is no short-term solution . " real 28k issac shier , israel " we ca n't suddenly be friends after so many years of being belligerent . " real 28k monday , 19 february , 2001 , 08:38 gmt sharon 's victory : what next ?
select the link below to watch talking point on air ariel sharon is to become israel 's next prime minister .
mr sharon has won a landslide victory over the incumbent prime minister , ehud barak .
israelis who voted for ariel sharon want him to get tough with the palestinians and bring to an end the months of violence .
palestinians know that dealing with the right-winger will be more difficult than with mr barak .
their leaders have vowed to intensify their uprising .
what hope is there for any progress in the peace process and an end to the violence now that ariel sharon is taking over the reins of power in israel ?
we were debating this issue on our global phone-in programme " talking point on air " .
robin lustig was joined by likud mp dr. yuval steinitz live from jerusalem .
your comments since the programme your comments during the programme your comments before the programme this talking point is now closed .
a selection of your comments are posted below .
the people who live in the past do n't make the future morris , uk one has to remember that there is realism and idealism .
while it may be true that israel did n't have a right to occupy the land it now has , it must be remembered that there are people living there now .
the people who live in the past do n't make the future .
history is there to be learned from , to be or not to be repeated , but can not be changed .
therefore , by taking the situation as it is now , and trying to work further one can hope to achieve an eternal peace .
morris , uk i ca n't stand sharon and i am not happy he is my pm - but i do n't think the palestinians have a right to complain because 1 -rrb- they put him there and 2 -rrb- arafat 's hands are equally soaked with blood .
maybe one day we 'll both be mature enough to choose leaders on the basis of their peace-making , not their war-mongering .
vered , jerusalem , israel the biggest obstacle to the peace process is not sovereignty over jerusalem : it 's the question of the ' right of return ' .
today 's modern israeli ' democracy ' discriminates against palestinians by giving jews around the world " the right of return " : the right to become citizens of israel , yet refuses to give that option to palestinians who were forced out of their homes during the last several wars .
david koch , jerusalem , israel israelis want a homeland , and i can understand that .
but why force out other peoples from lands that they 've lived in for thousands of years ?
the jews can return , but do it in a peaceful way .
occupy lands that are n't owned by others , and create a true democratic system where all peoples - jews , palestinians , etc . , can freely choose who rules them .
but , of course , most israelis are only interested in forming a jewish country , and that 's why we have all this trouble now .
onn , adelaide , australia israel made peace with egypt and jordan , so it 's not israel 's lack of wanting peace that has brought us to this point .
instead , it 's the palestinian 's lack of desire to stop the hate and killing and lack of will to accept peace with israel .
they had the chance but showed their true colours .
now , israel will defend itself , like any other country facing terrorism .
seal , san diego usa we have lots of legal and illegal hispanics here in southern california with a percentage more than 55 % of the total population .
how about one day they declare southern california to be their own separate country basing that movement on the fact that it belonged to their ancestors -lrb- the spaniards -rrb- way before the americans dwelled it ! ?
how would the world react to that ?
most importantly , how would the southern californians and the other americans react to that ?
why did the world go haywire when iraq invaded kuwait in 1991 ?
according to iraq , kuwait was part of it for hundreds and hundreds of years !
you might argue that actions like that are things of the past -lrb- 18th and 19th centuries -rrb- .
but did it ever occur to you that israel was formed by force just only 53 years back !
the arabs resent the fact that israel was imposed on them .
they resent the fact that during its unwelcome formation , it displaced millions of arabs .
they resent its arrogance regarding the jerusalem issue .
ismail , los angeles , usa peace is about concession benjy , oxford , uk the fact is that barak offered every concession he realistically could .
now , this may not have been quite all that arafat wanted .
however , peace is about concession and arafat must have realised that barak 's offer was the best they have ever received .
in addition , it was always clear that the israeli offer would not be anywhere nearly so generous following the election .
this seems to suggest that arafat did not actually want to sign a peace accord .
benjy , oxford , uk the israelis tried to achieve peace by giving : barak had given the palestinians more then anyone else before him and in response he got riots .
that 's because he showed himself weak and arafat grabbed on to that in split second .
well , israel has tried to approach the problem from the left -lrb- i.e. by giving -rrb- and fail utterly , they 'll now try to approach it from the right .
good luck !
my personal belief , is that , no peace will be achieved as long as arafat is in charge .
ilya elyashkevich , los angeles , us another example of the total detachment from reality by michael , jerusalem , israel - saying the palestinians should stop the violence .
a few questions to put to people who refuse to look reality in the face : who has a trained army shooting at palestinians ?
who has used rockets , missiles and helicopters against the palestinians ?
who is continually and systematically destroying -lrb- bulldozing -rrb- palestinians homes and olive trees ?
james ashby , london , england ariel sharon is not interested in peace , in fact his agenda is to derail the peace process and start another war with its arab neighbours , that is the only way israel can expand its current territory .
by starting another war israel would again gain sympathy from the west who has becoming frustrated with israel 's human rights and undignified arrogance to accept peace with the palestinians .
yasser arafat is in fact a puppet of israel that is the reason he is being jerked around .
it is time palestinian elect a moral leader who is sincere in resolving the issue rather then pretending to be important .
as far as peace in the middle east for now it is dead and a very difficult time is ahead because no matter what palestinian agree to sharon will not accept .
gul khan , usa your comments since the programme there can be no right of return for the palestinians to israel and there can be no negotiations as long as violence continues john megiddo , south africa the so-called occupation is a fallacy .
both groups if anything , have equal rights to the land .
what the palestinians demand is the annihilation of israel - something that can not be given .
had the palestinians desired their own state they could have had it - with some compromises being made .
there can be no right of return for the palestinians to israel and there can be no negotiations as long as violence continues .
john megiddo , south africa throwing stone at israelis army will not bring peace whatsoever , and will not offer places like gaza and others cities being offered by israel former pm .
i believe continuing violence against israel , under mr. sharon will result in a big crisis in the region .
john mac acuek , australia i 'd like to point out to dennis taylor that israel did not steal arab land with force .
the arab countries surrounding israel have declared war on israel a number of times -lrb- 5 or 6 -rrb- and israel has won all these wars taking land in the process .
dan , london , uk each time that i hear experts , politicians and commentators thrash around the arab / israeli conflict i am struck by the naivety of the discussion .
fear has given the state of israel its raison d 'etre and aggressive arrogance its style of diplomacy .
the palestinians have been caught between the disinterest of the arab world at large , the powerful american pro-israeli lobby and the hypocracy of the western world .
both the israelis and palestinians are engaged in a tribal deadlock which has been smeared over with the sophistication of the modern world .
to resolve this deadlock they have both need to recognise whilst their mutual detestation and suspicion may give them identity it is not , and never will permit them to rise above brutality and death .
tony harding , uk what happened to the jews in europe was a separate subject .
but had the allies used more foresight , the israeli / palestinian clash could perhaps have at least been side-stepped stephen pohlmann uk / tel aviv i have never been a sharon supporter .
i am leftist , with the usual swings to the right .
but sharon was the first to remind me of the status of jordan .
recently , a bbc reporter from amman happened to mention in passing that over 50 % of the jordanian population is palestinian .
as far as i know , it is over 60 % .
this is not something to ' pass over ' .
i know of no other nation in the world which has a majority of its population holding on to a different nationality .
and unlike , say the irish americans , they do not consider assimilation ; they remain fervently palestinian .
it is easy to say that the palestinians have many countries where they are considered ' brothers ' , -lrb- although they are not treated very brotherly by them -rrb- , but to say they do not have a homeland is wrong .
and who is responsible ?
who should make more effort to right the wrongs ?
the british and the french , who rewarded their allies against the turks by establishing jordan and iraq , without any real consideration for the indigenous population .
what happened to the jews in europe was a separate subject .
but had the allies used more foresight , the israeli / palestinian clash could perhaps have at least been side-stepped .
stephen pohlmann uk / tel aviv we are only blaming people on both sides who are at fault .
i want to agree with ramesh from australia & betty from israel : in 1948 israel was given a certain area of land , but gradually and with force stole more land from the arabs .
the cause of this violence -lrb- and any -rrb- is religion .
history shows that the jews left the area thousands of years ago , yet they came back .
this to me is discrimination with a capital " d " .
dennis taylor , australia peace between israel and the palestinian 's is very much dependent a whole new ethos in the arab world derek , beit shemesh peace between israel and the palestinian 's is very much dependent a whole new ethos in the arab world .
not until the arab world begins to foster democratic governments where tolerance will emerge , will the masses learn to express themselves less emotionally and more intellectually in a rational framework .
until then arabs will continue to home in on the so-called injustice of israel to focus the attention away from their own countries tragic internal failures away onto israel .
derek , beit shemesh calling israel a democracy is a joke .
how can a country claim to be a democracy when a large part of its populace has been forced out on gun-point , not allowed to return home and denied their right to vote just because they have a different opinion or ethnicity ?
h. jalisi , usa ariel sharon is a war criminal by anyone 's standards , why is the us -lrb- and the uk -rrb- trying to bring to justice one war criminal -lrb- slobodan milosovic -rrb- while shaking hands with another ?
surely a criminal is a criminal ?
armagan akram , london , uk israel wo n't go away and die , and nobody should expect us to michael , jerusalem , israel once again , the comments from people outside israel prove that everybody listens to biased reporting , rather than hearing the truth .
an organisation in israel translates the " official " news bulletins of the palestinians , and if you 'd read the transcripts , you 'd understand why barak had to go , and just regret that he twisted the electoral law to keep netanyahu -lrb- everybody 's real choice -rrb- out of the race .
israel wo n't go away and die , and nobody should expect us to .
and if the palestinians want to be regarded as victims , they should stop the violence , and sit down to talk .
michael , jerusalem , israel although i do n't buy the argument that israel belongs to the jews , just because it says so in a book -lrb- by that rationale , today 's italians can lay claim to the rest of europe ; and native americans own the us -rrb- , the fact of the matter is that israel exists and has to be dealt with .
all arab nations and communities need to accept this reality ...
israel is not going to go away !
similarly , the israelis need to understand that they simply can not have it all their own way ... the palestinians are real people with real needs and aspirations who deserve equal opportunity to excel and develop .
mark m. newdick , usa / uk arafat is now the loser , he pushed for too much and now he has got nothing b cope , manchester uk the world has now seen that it is the palestinians and not the israelis who are the real obstacle to peace .
arafat was offered the most generous concessions ever and he chose to reject them .
the reason , the palestinians want israel 's destruction , nothing that is offered will ever be enough .
arafat is now the loser , he pushed for too much and now he has got nothing = sharon .
it is his own fault .
b cope , manchester uk arafat missed a golden opportunity .
the more barak conceded the more arafat wanted .
it will be some time before israel can reach such a state of negotiation again .
edwin gatt , st. paul 's bay malta your comments during the programme i would like to point to a different perspective : what has been happening to all the money being given to the palestinians by the west ?
the standards of living of the palestinians in gaza and west bank is just as abominable as before and the leadership is getting fat .
no wonder there is rebellion in the street , except that it is wrongfully being fanned towards what is their considered traditional enemy - israel .
claudia nielsen i think usa is responsible for all violence in palestine yoosaf , india i think usa is responsible for all violence in palestine .
they are fooling the world by acting as a mediator .
without the help of usa israel can not do this .
we all have seen thousands of pictures of cruelty against these innocent people .
do n't forget the un ordinance to give back the arab land .
yoosaf , india wow !
so many people , few of which are israelis , have so much to say about this .
the truth is , a lot of israelis did n't even vote , some were protesting , some could n't decide , some ca n't really see the deference , sharon , barak , that is n't the problem .
it does n't matter who will lead israel in the next 4 years , what matters is that we really want to live in peace , only peace takes at least 2 partners . . .
we just do n't have a partner , as it seems that 's too bad .
amir , israel ultimately israel would have to give the arab land back as per the requirements of u.n resolutions .
history shows when 12 year old boys start dying for a right cause , they can never be defeated .
israel must understand this .
usman mir , cambridge leaders can no longer mingle with the populations they supposedly represent , and must hide behind massive security devices and forces miles fusco there is a very disturbing arch-conservative trend in government today , epitomized in the us as lead by mr bush and in israel by mr sharon , toward the total security state .
suspension of civil rights , in the name of security , is acceptable to citizens in fear .
leaders can no longer mingle with the populations they supposedly represent , and must hide behind massive security devices and forces .
is it not to be expected , then , that some frustrated citizens will express their anger the only way they can - by protest and violence of their own ?
miles fusco mr. sharon was freely elected by israeli people as pm and he will remain there as their leader as long as they want him .
john mac acuek , nsw , australia can there really be peace ?
lets look at the entire scenario - on the one hand we have corrupt officials on the palestinian side , who have been known to be siphoning off millions from the various charities ref the various reports in the news week and other reputed magazines , and on the other a leader who 's known to be a hard hitting general .
what a combination .
raymond j , india your comments before we went on air sharon 's presence alone is enough to spur further violence .
israel voted for this man so be it .
it is their right to do so .
let them do this without the $ 10 billion per year that the state of israel receives from the american taxpayer .
my tax dollars do not need to go to hypocrites .
jack johnson , usa sharon is a throwback to an era when leaders pursued personal visions of glory , instead of national policy .
sharon bears a strong resemblance to medieval kings , pursuing their own tiny slice of power at the expense of their subjects .
it 's a pity that he was chosen to lead a modern nuclear power , with the title ' prime minister . '
he would be more appropriately titled ' caesar . '
dan andrews , cairo , egypt i seems to me that sharon is the wrong man for this job to much of a hawk it seems that the arab community will not like it .
jery gallo , burlington , usa where is the palestinian mandela ?
they need him - not the gun paul , gaborone , botswana it seems to me like the international opinion on the israeli crisis can never be objective .
how can anything except a larger conflict be expected when everyone approaches the question with their own bias ?
seems to me like the israelis elect leaders in response to what is going on around them .
wars and rumours of uprising brought sharon .
has the world already forgotten what they allowed to happen to the jews , the very issue that caused the blockade running and their declaration of statehood ?
why does no one bring in the factor of the legitimate israeli preoccupation with security ?
a peaceful arab approach might solve the problem .
analogies between israel and apartheid in south africa have been made .
where is the palestinian mandela ?
they need him - not the gun .
paul , gaborone , botswana what everyone conveniently forgets is that the palestinians were party to their own misfortune , preferring in 1948 to await the outcome of the arab invasion in refugee camps than settle down and work with the israelis .
it is also convenient to call sharon a war criminal when he has not in any case been indicted for war crimes .
the ' 82 massacres were not carried out by him but by lebanese phalangist militias .
his resignation was simply an acceptance of indirect responsibility as defence minister .
i personally do not believe sharon wants peace but then neither does arafat .
why else would you allow kids to throw stones at soldiers or refuse to negotiate with barak ?
emeka , uk / nigeria ariel sharon has done some things which might define him as a war criminal .
so has arafat .
but he is a pragmatic politician , and i do n't believe he wants a war with the arab world .
he will , like netanyahu , try to slow down the peace process .
let us remember that perhaps the biggest shift in israeli politics in past years is that likud has become pro-peace .
the fact that ariel sharon would run a campaign as a likud candidate on the basis of bringing peace is in itself revolutionary and signifies that though the pm is a right-winger , the momentum of the israel policy has a leftward bend and will thus force sharon to form a nug if he wishes to make it until the end of the year .
michael brenner , poughkeepsie , ny the palestinians ca n't compromise any more simply because they have nothing more to compromise ahmed , madison , usa " the arabs missed the boat " , " the arabs do n't want peace " , " the israelis have gone as far as they can go " .
these are the kinds of statements some in the western world keep blindly repeating and they puzzle me .
this is exactly as somebody taking over your home by force then offers you the basement and says " this is as far as i can go with you ! " and when you refuse this and demand your full rights then you are " missing the boat " or " denying peace " .
i would like to remind the same people that the palestinians started with the recognition of the state of israel -lrb- compare the israelis refusing even to mention an independent palestinian state -rrb- , the palestinian authority started even to arrest their own people -lrb- bringing much opposition from the inside -rrb- for the sake of continuing the peace talks , and still they " do n't want peace " .
the palestinians ca n't compromise any more simply because they have nothing more to compromise .
ahmed , madison , usa jerusalem belongs to all three religions .
jews keep referring that jerusalem is all theirs in its entirety .
the torah , the bible , and koran tell that jerusalem is all of ours , yet the argument for the peace process was that occupied territories after the illegal acquisition in the six day war , the un resolution 242 of 1967 says all captured lands in the six day war must be returned .
israel ignored it as well as other un resolutions .
this brings us to mr. sharon .
i have nothing against visiting a holy site , but mr. sharon is n't just any ordinary jew , he was the cause of these violent uprisings .
mr sharon is not going to be easily accepted by arabs , until he proves that he is after peace .
it 's been a long road of violence , and i believe that both arabs and israelis are tired of war , and they need to make peace ; however , the israelis are hard on giving moslems the part of the holy land that belongs to them and the whole mess ends .
so if mr. sharon knows what 's good for him , he 'll pursue the peace other wise war .
mostafa , egyptian in the usa sooner or later , there must be something like peace in the middle east , taking into account the aspirations and rights of all who live there s. d. yana davis , cape girardeau usa those of us old enough to remember probably recall that gloom and forecasts of doom followed the victory of menahem begin and the likud in israeli elections in the seventies .
yet begin - with a lot of help from us president jimmy carter and egyptian president anwar sadat - managed to get israel closer to peace than it ever had been since its inception .
though there is no way of knowing for sure , perhaps ariel sharon will play just such a part in the bloody middle eastern drama .
sooner or later , there must be something like peace in the middle east , taking into account the aspirations and rights of all who live there .
s. d. yana davis , cape girardeau usa israelis on this forum are very keen to talk about their rights .
do n't the palestinians have rights too ?
their rights have been trampled on for the last 50 years while the international community stood by , and indeed armed and financed their oppressor .
finally they have realised that our governments are n't going to do anything for them .
finally they have stood up for themselves , and are paying a terrible price for their freedom - they deserve our support .
raquib , london , uk i am sympathetic to the israeli people , and i do wish them a future of peace and prosperity .
but i ask you to please realise that you can not be occupiers and demand peace from the people you occupy .
also your conflict has caused us , the lebanese , to be occupied by the syrian army .
so non of us here in the middle east is experiencing true freedom .
whether we are christian , jewish , or moslem , we all deserve to live in peace .
and peace is only reachable when the lands that do n't belong to israel are returned to their rightful citizens .
this is a tough neighbourhood we live in , the only way we will survive is if we realise that this land belongs to us all .
i hope sharon will pursue and revive the peace process , but unfortunately i doubt it .
i realise that arafat and other arab leaders have been ruthless and responsible for many deaths , but that does n't clear the way for sharon to be elected prime minister .
the election confirms the israeli misconception as to how peace will be reached .
if peace is desired then international law and united nations resolutions have to be respected .
and people that throw stones are not to be answered by machine guns , tanks , and helicopters .
ziad , beirut , lebanon the israelis have elected a man they believe will work to get the job done , and do it while representing the interests of israel .
the election shows the disgust of the israeli people with barak .
i see people continually calling sharon a war criminal , yet the man who has been leading the palestinians has sponsored terrorism himself .
he has the ability to ring-in his people in order to get things done , yet look what he 's accomplished instead .
barak was willing to give the palestinians far more than previous israeli leaders , yet he still walked out on the peace talks .
i do n't understand why it is that in this day and age , when somebody is willing to stand up for his country and put its interests first , all of a sudden he 's labelled a extremist and a zealot .
ryan corcoran , austin , texas , usa do n't you think that after all , mr sharon is made of same stuff as previous leaders of israel ?
leon blank , brussels , belgium the media point out the connection between ariel sharon and the massacre of sabrah and shatilah , and not always with reference to the lebanese christians who actually committed those terrible deeds : so the main feeling which emerges is that ariel sharon is the very person who did the massacre by himself .
moreover his resignation was due not because he was guilty of the massacre , but he had to resign as any leader should do when a catastrophe occurs when he is in charge .
i did not hear about the reason why israel invaded lebanon and why they were allied to the christian lebanese , which was to fight the terrorist actions from the palestinians against israel and against their lebanese hosts .
it does not justify the massacre of innocent civilian victims in the camps and does not make ariel sharon a saint .
but it brings into a better perspective those facts in the past , which are generally used to judge the new prime minister of israel .
the question based on that , do n't you think that after all , mr sharon is made of same stuff -lrb- good or bad -rrb- as previous leaders of israel ?
leon blank , brussels , belgium the arabs and all their supporters will do well to hold their peace before they accuse our leader as a war criminal .
arab and muslim leaders , past and present , have set such records of butchering their own people -lrb- including palestinians -rrb- that israel will never be able to break .
they also have to understand that we are not impressed when they explain to us that we are racist occupants who have nothing to do in jerusalem , hebron , judea and tel-aviv .
it 's hard to explain to arabs , but the westerners here should understand that democracy means loud arguments and disagreements .
they also should get into their heads that we have our values that no one is allowed to trample upon .
and they should know that we do not like when somebody is killing us , lynching us , blowing us up - even if this somebody happens to be underage kid with nothing but hate on his mind .
arik , jerusalem , israel the prospects for peace are gloomy as long as global politics remains steeped in dishonesty and greed tim , london , uk it is a real tragedy what is sanctioned by the mere mention of the word ' democracy ' .
sharon was elected in a democratic fashion ; therefore we may all turn a blind eye to his past actions .
of course , democracy has nothing to do with it .
our ally is an ally when our interests are at stake .
we 've seen it all before .
the british government knew all about saddam hussein and his actions when they considered it acceptable to sell him weapons .
he was their ally , despite his known human rights abuses .
people like sharon , both the ' democratically ' elected and the autocratic , will continue to find support for years and years to come , no matter if justice or human rights are compromised .
" israel is the only democracy in the middle east ¿ " so what ?
many of us know that when algeria 's democratic elections in 1992 looked set to bring a muslim party to power , they were cancelled and the ' democratic ' powers turned a blind eye .
it is all about greed , and little else .
we had riots on the streets of britain throughout the 1990s , with youths throwing bottles and bricks at the police .
nobody would ever have suggested that it is okay for the police to fire live ammunition back .
and yet it is sanctioned in democratic israel , even against people with legitimate cause to protest , because israel is an ally .
the prospects for peace ?
let 's talk about honesty and justice first .
sharon , even israel , is not the only problem .
the prospects for peace are gloomy as long as global politics remains steeped in dishonesty and greed .
tim , london , uk could anyone answer my question ?
who among all the israeli prime ministers has not committed crimes and massacres ?
now we are going back to the endless cycle of hatred and revenge .
the peace process will take another century or maybe more because the massacres will continue .
salwa , lebanon in response to ariel 's -lrb- ann arbor , usa -rrb- statement about a single moslem country not electing its ruler democratically-well how about indonesia and bangladesh to name two ?
incidentally , like israel , these countries have had corruption scandals with their elected rulers , and also like israel they have occasionally violated human rights and have not always been sensitive to their minorities .
m. m. zaman , uk in us the bombing in israel will continue as long as the injustice continues against the people of palestine .
if the violence was closer to home for the uk and us then they would seek a quicker resolution to the problem .
the western world will continue to support the jews as long as the problem does not crop up in their own back yard .
robin cook was quick to condemn col. gaddafi for not following un instructions , why is he not so open in condemning israel for violating un resolutions , i wonder ?
n akram , london , uk it 's interesting that sharon visits a holy site , causing the intifada , which causes barak to call an election , which leads to sharon , the man who started it all , becoming prime minister .
a cynic might think he planned it all ...
cg , swindon , uk what direction the peace process takes will not only depend on ariel sharon but the entire international community rbd , india to dave : wolves do help protect chickens ... that 's what we have in dogs and it is the responsibility of the international community to bring out the dog in the wolf that sharon has been all along .
what direction the peace process takes will not only depend on ariel sharon but the entire international community .
rbd , india how can the israelis be called murderers when thousands of arabs live in the state of israel without harm .
how can israel sit back if the whole of the so-called muslim world is seeking for their destruction .
how can the israelis sit back when the very people who cry for peace are calling for the total destruction of israel ?
not until people stop being biased in the arab-israeli conflict will peace be realized in the middle east .
philip , seattle , usa palestinians do n't have to accept the best offer and they should n't because they 've given up enough rights hesham , new zealand it amazes me when people here keep saying that the palestinians have recklessly missed their best and only chance for peace .
palestinians do n't have to accept the best offer and they should n't because they 've given up enough rights and all what they want / deserve is simply the implementation of the un resolutions .
arafat does n't own the palestinians and hence has no right of giving up the right of return for the refugees ; neither does he own the noble sanctuary to give it away .
he , also , is n't obliged to comply with the wishes of some double-standard world leaders and " significant " figures .
of course he has a responsibility of preventing bloodshed but it was once said , and this notion is unfortunately still valid , what was taken by force ca n't be retrieved except by force .
hesham , new zealand arafat and the palestinians have backed the wrong horse again .
during the gulf war they backed saddam and their so called " brother " arabs punished them by expelling palestinians and cutting off funds to the plo .
now arafat backs violence and gets sharon .
barak was even willing to concede jerusalem and arafat wanted more .
well you ca n't always get what you want .
palestinian refugees can be resettled and compensated .
where are their " arab brothers " when they need financial help the most ?
israel is not going to disappear or become weaker .
the militant arabs have pushed israel too far , israel will strike back .
vum khan mang , wharton , us we wanted someone who will be good for us - not for the world .
sounds bad ?
tough !
shlomo m. , israel , jerusalem reading part of the comments in this section i would like to ask one question - are we , the israelis , making this peace for the whole world - or for ourselves ?
the whole world , sometimes it seems , likes us when we give up , when we are humble .
but when we stand by our rights , by what is holy for us , and for every jew in the whole world - then we are dangerous , we are against peace .
why is it that an arab murdering a jew expresses his ' frustration ' , and an israeli soldier , returning fire to his attacker is ' targeting little arab children ' ?
ariel sharon was elected pm because barak represented to many israelis a feeble , coward , foolish person , that keeps on talking to the arabs , while they shoot at israeli citizens , while they lie , while they break every agreement ever signed with them , and while they teach their children to kill and hate - and not peace .
we wanted someone who will be good for us - not for the world .
sounds bad ?
tough !
shlomo m. , israel , jerusalem the situation in the middle east has dragged on forever .
the only way to put an end to it is if both religions treat each other with equality .
judaism and islam are very similar faiths , it is sad to see that people who have practically the same faith can be so different .
the israelis should allow the refugees , that they pushed out so long ago , to return to their land , the only reason they are n't doing so is because they do not want to give up the jewish majority .
is it the palestinian 's fault that he / she is a muslim , should they be condemned to refugee camps just because of their faith ?
it is sad that the un is doing nothing to quash the fighting .
if they impose sanctions on israel to force it to accept the refugees then most of the quarrels will end .
the israelis are being selfish in a sense that they believe that the land is theirs , muslims also consider the land sacred .
anna , canada israel is not viable in the long term without the trust of her neighbours , and is currently doing little to inspire this trust .
mick , uk one day there will be either a peace along the lines of what was already on the table , or a middle east destroyed by war .
the first scenario will be possible after sharon is gone , but we might never get there since this man might trigger off the second scenario before that .
but this ugly occupation wo n't last .
blame goes to both sides , but let 's not forget that sharon got exactly what he planned for when he went to the temple mount on 28 september : palestinian violence that makes him look like the savior of his nation .
it is sad that his malicious intentions worked out this well .
stephen , washington dc , usa any newly elected leader will try to " start as he means to go on " especially in such a political powder keg , so what has sharon done so far ?
in his victory speech , he talked about " real peace and stability " - well , talk is cheap , it 's actions that really matter .
in the 2 days since his victory he has managed to anger both the egyptian and jordanian governments - is this an indication of what 's to come ?
odarka , manchester , uk i read a lot here about palestinians having no right of return .
seems a bit rich from people promoting a country that has the right of return at its foundation .
paul killick , uk every time that israel stands for its right or shows some force you do n't like it yehuda ben-ya 'akov , israel as an israeli i am amazed of the hatred that i read here towards israel and its new leader ariel sharon .
any of you that thinks that sharon is a war criminal have ever thought who is arafat .
arafat 's hands are full of jewish blood .
he was and still is the partner of saddam hussein who has killed hundreds of thousands of his own people .
do you know how many palestinians where murdered by king hussein ?
do you know how many thousands of syrians where murdered by their own president assad in hama ?
do you know how many are murdered every day in algeria by muslim extremists ?
many of you would like to finish what has started in europe in the second world war when 6 million jews were murdered .
every time that israel stands for its right or shows some force you do n't like it .
you are used to seeing jews only as lambs .
you all know that the land of israel belongs to the people of israel .
remember that jordan is actually 3/4 of palestine and 2/3 of its people are palestinians so , what more do you want from us ?
peace will come only when the arabs recognize the rights of the jewish people on the land of israel and when they themselves adopt the democratic system to the benefit of their own people and the whole region .
yehuda ben-ya 'akov , givat 'aim israel in your article on the palestinian refugees ' right of return you make no mention of the millions of jewish people who were forced to leave arab countries - including egypt , syria , lebanon and iraq since the troubles have started .
no negotiations can take place without these people being duly compensated .
the most appropriate suggestion could be that each jew thrown out of a country could cancel out the right of return of a palestinian thrown out of palestine / israel - the figures would roughly cancel each other out .
there is also the fact of financial losses - you will find that the jews living in arab countries lost a lot more in economic terms than the arabs in palestine / israel .
davide barzilai , london , england it 's time now that the rest of the world stands firm towards israel and forces them to accept the un resolutions albert , edinburgh , uk please do not forget that there are un resolutions -lrb- the withdrawal of israel from all the occupied land , including east jerusalem and the return of the refugees to their home -rrb- .
if israel wants lasting peace it 's very clear what they need to do .
by electing sharon , the people of israel think that they need to be firm with the palestinians .
they get it wrong .
it 's time now that the rest of the world stands firm towards israel and forces them to accept the un resolutions .
albert , edinburgh , uk sharon has declared negotiations will not commence from where barak concluded .
given sharon 's hawkish and semi-racist attitudes towards the arabs , it is unlikely we 'll see any productive measures coming out of israel in his term .
let 's hope the years since his military career have given him some newfound wisdom regarding his dealings with the palestinians .
sameer , united states the entire world desperately needs to understand that the very man who provoked and was responsible for the latest 4 months of uprising and bloodshed has been elected to power by the israeli people .
the implications of this are indeed very disturbing .
it makes you wonder , of the " agenda for peace " that jewish people have for both themselves and the palestinians .
in any decent , democratic country tried this man would be tried for war crimes and other atrocities against the palestinians .
and yet , we see him on the forefront of israeli politics as our new prime minister .
these two facts paint a very grim picture for the future of peace in the middle east .
indeed this is a sad day not just for jews and arabs , but for the entire world .
fozieh elamad , toronto , canada the people of israel no longer believe in the willingness of yasser arafat to stop the terror and make peace ilya lisansky , boston , usa the west has been exerting all the pressure it could for ten years to force a peace agreement onto israel and her neighbours .
unfortunately the language of compromise is foreign to the regime of yasser arafat .
the people of israel voted down ehud barak because they no longer believe in the willingness of yasser arafat to stop the terror and make peace .
the arabs have vast lands in their possession , the jewish people a small piece , israel .
they have the right to safety in their own homeland , and ariel sharon will deliver it .
ilya lisansky , boston , usa as an " arab " with both " arab " and jewish friends , i feel that sharon bodes ill for both parties involved in the conflict .
it is the lack of their basic human rights that palestinians , even the children , feel compelled to protest .
how much does peace cost ?
how many lives and how many resources will be wasted ?
may god bless those with truly peaceful intentions .
hypatia , usa having signed the oslo agreement , the palestinian regime violated each and every provision of the accord .
they have created a 40,000-strong army , educated their children about jihad against israel , engaged in terror and lynching and demanded more and more .
yes , the temple mount is the third most sacred place for the moslems .
this is not the reason for them to have sovereignty over it .
the same place is the first and the only sacred jewish place .
yes , 700,000 arabs went into exile in 1948 .
the same number of jews were expelled at the same time from syria , lebanon , egypt , iraq and north africa .
there was a population exchange , simple as that .
sharon was elected democratically .
show me a single arab or , for that matter , moslem country that can say the same about its ruler .
ariel , ann arbor usa i am hopeful that sharon will negotiate an effective peace from a position of strength david , usa all this characterization of sharon as a " fascist " or some kind of monster is sheer nonsense .
he has been demonized by a nervous and gullible western media .
sharon is an old soldier it 's true - and a tough opponent of the arabs on numerous battlefields .
but he also wants peace - just not peace at any price .
in this he is perfectly in tune with most israelis as witness his electoral land-slide victory .
i am hopeful that sharon will negotiate an effective peace from a position of strength , not weakness .
this will be a peace that insures israel 's security , not a peace which relinquishes everything israel has worked and fought for over fifty years .
now is the time for a national unity government with labour led by shimon peres who is both a friend of sharon 's and a political opponent .
together they can steer israel and the palestinians towards a peace deal which will last .
david , usa many of us who voted for sharon feel that there is an absence of peace .
the palestinian authority has unceasingly poured forth hatred of israel and jews through its education system and media networks .
at the moment the only people talking about war are the arabs .
israelis feel that barak offered yasser arafat the most he could but even that was n't good enough and the response was the violence which erupted last year .
we all hope and pray for peace daily .
malcolm palmer , bet shemesh , israel mike in calgary , ariel sharon is not a russian immigrant to israel .
he was born in 1928 in a moshav -lrb- agricultural kibbutz -rrb- near tel aviv ; land legally acquired and hardly " stolen " in the " colonial " manner that he so histrionically describes .
sharon has many and various faults and i would never have supported him to further any peace dialogue in the region .
however mis-informed people must realise that there was a continual jewish presence in this region for thousands of years especially jerusalem and hebron .
this is not including jews who immigrated there and bought their land from arab landowners in the 18th and 19th centuries .
it is interesting to note and is factually correct that people such as ariel sharon were themselves palestinians - jewish palestinians .
jo bell , london , england i have a hard time understanding how people can say arafat was wrong in not accepting barak 's peace proposals .
true , barak went further than any other israeli leader in offering concessions , but they were still not in line with the security council resolutions put forth decades ago .
israelis must realize that these resolutions will not be forgotten by the international community .
they will never have peace without implementing them .
they have got to play by the same rules as the rest of the world .
ariel sharon 's attitude will not bring peace .
i pray for the innocents on both sides that he will not be in power long enough to get too many people killed .
jason , usa it 's a shame to vote for a man with such a track record .
i wish the people of the middle east good luck .
peace .
s. kay , sierra leone spare a thought for those living under an already brutally efficient occupation which is about to be invigorated by a man whose exploits differ from those of slobodan milosoveic in scale only , not ambition raman dinesh , uk those who advocate greater " security " for israel show , through their partisan comments , that for them israel will always be vindicated in whatever actions it takes and the palestinians will always be wrong in whatever they do , for the simple reason that israel is a creation of the " chosen people " .
such an inherently irrational and racist view allows for subscription to beliefs that , e.g arafat deliberately sends palestinian children to be shot , he secretly desires war all the time and that he very probably eats jewish babies .
equally it forms the basis for saying the palestinians were too greedy by rejecting barak 's " peace " offer , palestinians do n't deserve a state .
if the lessons of history are correct , perpetual slavery and occupation can not persist -let 's hope that 's correct .
meanwhile spare a thought for those living under an already brutally efficient occupation which is about to be invigorated by a man whose exploits differ from those of slobodan milosoveic in scale only , not ambition .
raman dinesh , uk if peace means total capitulation , arafat has failed a great opportunity to bring " peace " .
what kind of peace do israelis expect .
should 3.5 million people continue living in camps and accept the biggest ethnic cleansing since ww2 ?
should 1 billion muslims be denied their right to visit the third most holiest place in islam ?
what barak offered to palestinians was the least he could do .
under his power jewish settlements grew like they never had before and the golan heights , which he promised to hand back to syria remained occupied .
i just want to remind some people that the number of palestinians who where killed in the conflict was at least 7 or 8 times higher than that of israelis .
unfortunately , the life of a palestinian teenager is regarded worthless in the western world .
peyman dadgar , tehran , iran let us not forget that sharon was elected in a democratic fashion neil , canada let us not forget that sharon was elected in a democratic fashion .
israel is the only democracy in the middle east and we should respect the outcome .
the arabs decided by their own free will not to vote .
i hope for peace in the region .
i hope the palestinians eventually become sincere in their peace efforts .
talk is easy to come by , and it seems like that is all they are doing neil , canada it does n't matter who the leader of israel is .
peace will come only when there is justice for the palestinian people .
real justice , where israel withdraws to the pre-1967 borders .
israel has to withdraw from all occupied lands including east jerusalem , not part of it .
indonesia had to withdraw from all of east timor .
why is the rule different for israel ?
ramesh k , australia reading the comments made me realise that westerners tend to think that everyone is like them .
well , this is not northern europe , this is the middle east .
weakness can invite war , but fear can enforce peace .
dan l , usa search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide see also : 06 feb 01 -pipe- middle east barak concedes to sharon internet links : palestine liberation organisation israeli government palestine information the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites other talking points : was it right to bomb baghdad ?
the euro : what do you think ?
do we forget too quickly ?
what would you do with the dome ?
have you lost faith in the nhs ?
are we a nation of fatties ?
is romance dead ?
gm : should europe press ahead ?
should the retirement age be scrapped ?
human genome : nature or nurture ?
asylum : what should europe do ?
links to more talking point stories in this section was it right to bomb baghdad ?
the euro : what do you think ?
do we forget too quickly ?
what would you do with the dome ?
have you lost faith in the nhs ?
are we a nation of fatties ?
is romance dead ?
gm : should europe press ahead ?
should the retirement age be scrapped ?
human genome : nature or nurture ?
sharon 's victory : what next ?
asylum : what should europe do ? ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- talking point -pipe- asylum : what should europe do ? low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : talking point front page world uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point forum in depth audiovideo monday , 19 february , 2001 , 08:40 gmt asylum : what should europe do ?
the french ambassador to britain , daniel bernard has said that britain is seen as a " soft touch " by asylum seekers .
last year , 76,000 asylum seekers found their way across the channel , making the uk the most popular destination in the european union .
but the problem is not restricted to the uk .
eu home affairs ministers met this week to discuss an eu-wide policy on asylum seekers .
immigration campaigners argue that as the eu population ages and the labour market tightens , eu policies should seek to encourage , and not deter newcomers .
is europe a fortress or a free-for-all ?
should britain and the eu be more welcoming to asylum seekers and other immigrants ?
this talking point is now closed .
a selection of your e-mails are posted below .
i live in a council estate in glasgow which has recently been refurbished to house asylum seekers angela , scotland i live in a council estate in glasgow which has recently been refurbished to house asylum seekers .
now for those of us who are in the minority who actually pay the £ 300 rent a month to stay here , it is somewhat galling to read all the reports about the poor state of refugee housing and lack of financial help .
all the houses in our area were freshly decorated and fitted out with all mod cons - including heating - so at least a few of the asylum seekers are not living in the abject poverty the asylum seekers council likes to capture headlines with .
in fact i think it would be more interesting to find out how a section of these " asylum seekers " can afford cars , mobile phones and the latest clothing .
angela , scotland labour have been blaming the conservative government for 4 years now for every problem they encounter .
is n't it about time they took responsibility for the asylum seekers issue ?
they should concentrate on resolving it rather than swiping at the tories to improve their position for the upcoming election .
colin jordan , england having read your words , i am so amazed that most of you europeans think that it 's only your problem and applies to no other country in the world .
yes , maybe your political conditions are in a more suitable form , but it does n't mean that people take advantage of that !
leili shams , tehran , iran a european initiative should only be welcomed if it establishes a fair and efficient system ; bureaucratic checks such as those in the uk are a misplaced attempt to control numbers and result , in at best , rough justice .
sadly , many are fleeing from persecution , and worse , it is an insult to brave women and men to haggle about the cost , and to seek ways to reduce numbers granted asylum .
ted clapham , uk worrying about immigration is a symptom of a greater malaise paul , brit in switzerland i 'm not surprised people in the uk are worried about asylum seekers .
this issue embodies a more general feeling that in the uk everything 's already too crowded , overloaded , with too many people fighting over too few resources -lrb- e.g. public resources e.g. trains , roads , healthcare , education -rrb- .
worrying about immigration is a symptom of a greater malaise , which will not be fixed until people realise that you do n't get a fair , well-functioning society without wanting to invest your money in it for the long-term .
paul , brit in switzerland -lrb- economic migrant -rrb- i do n't know whether britain is a soft touch compared to continental europe when it comes to seeking asylum .
the official figures suggest otherwise .
but if someone really does fear for their life or freedom in their own country i think we have a duty to let them settle here .
many have sold all their possessions to raise the money to travel and it is downright cruel to take the cynical view that they 're coming here to scrounge off the state .
tabloids and the tories should be ashamed of themselves .
the uk is a good country to flee to because foreigners are likely to feel more at home here , due to our large immigrant population .
phil george , uk if we are not viewed as a " soft touch " , why are these so called asylum seekers choosing to travel through up to six different countries before applying for asylum ?
it is interesting to note that the labour government has recently appointed many new customs officers to crack down on tobacco smuggling .
a pity they could not also appoint an extra immigration officers to help keep down the thousands on the road / sea at this moment who will eventually try and enter uk .
bruce m allan , uk i am not racist , i accept that we have a duty to offer sanctuary to those fleeing from persecution , and indeed , i am happy that we are seen as a tolerant and welcoming nation .
however , i am also nationalistic , -lrb- by this i mean proud to be english , nothing sinister -rrb- , and that we should first look to our own taxpayers and welfare claimants .
we have limited resources , limited housing and limited employment .
i accept that economic migrants want a better standard of living , but should it be at the expense of some of our own citizens .
luckily i am not in a desperate position , but there are many pensioners , single mothers , teenagers on the streets who live in terrible conditions and should take first call on this country 's resources .
genuine refugees who flee from persecution , yes .
economic migrants , no .
diane , uk the health service is in crisis during the winter months , housing is restricted , schools are struggling , yet we want to allow over 100,000 people a year into the country ?
i want my taxes spent on my children 's future , not on people who have contributed nothing to this country !
paul , altrincham , britain in my experience people that come to the uk end up making a significant contribution to the economic and cultural wealth of this country .
immigration is a positive thing .
the uk is the preferred destination i hear .
well we should be proud of that .
maybe it is because it is a soft touch but i also think that it is because the british are regarded as being quite a reasonable and friendly bunch .
after all we are a nation of immigrants -lrb- apart from a few ancient celts -lrb- wherever they may live ! -rrb- .
finally immigration creates links between this country and the " home " country - a great way to build links around the world .
come on in - that 's what i say .
the more the better .
andrew , london so all those who have raised objections to asylum processing policy in this forum are frenzied bigots , incapable of compassion or rational argument - according to the sixth form opinions of so many other postings .
having a rational argument involves looking at the facts rather than venting your prejudices .
i can only speak for myself , though i think most like-minded people bear no ill-will to economic migrants and are happy to support genuine , substantiated asylum claims via the internationally-agreed procedure .
i agree that conditions for asylum applicants are pretty wretched - all the more reason for them to be dissuaded - but i grew up in glasgow and there are still some pretty wretched places there .
this is not the land of milk and honey by any stretch of the imagination .
where we are born is a matter of luck , and i sympathise with those who do not get dealt the same hand as myself .
but their best plan is to work to make their own lands better places to live rather than just abandoning them .
gus swan , united kingdom in no sense is the uk a " soft touch " whatever that term means .
the uk has a higher rate of refusal of asylum claims than many other european countries including almost blanket refusals to countries such as iran and even iraq -lrb- despite our continued sanctions and bombing -rrb- , the voucher regime is degrading and leaves asylum seekers with subsistence income driving some into illegal working in jobs most uk residents would not do for wages lower than the minimum wage .
asylum seekers are legally banned from working leading to resentment as they appear to be " hanging around " and a few turn to begging -lrb- which i do not condone -rrb- and some into crime .
the vast majority are trapped in a enforced waiting to hear their case in a hostile environment .
some asylum seekers may be economic migrants as opportunities for economic migration into europe have been closed .
europe has a moral duty and would gain economic benefits from allowing greater economic migration .
europe needs to ensure a fair and just asylum policy alongside a regulated immigration policy .
steven weeks , united kingdom it all seems so smug for people to comment when the problem does not affect them julian , england i do not have to deal with this issue as i , and i bet most people responding , live in a white dominated , mainly middle class and comfortable society .
well it is england , what do you expect ! ! .
i would love to hear from the people of dover and kent where the problem is enormous .
notice how critical the london respondents sound .
they live this every day .
long may tony blair 's immigration disaster remain 200 miles from me as it does with most of the people here .
it all seems so smug for people to comment when the problem does not affect them .
any chance of hearing from the people it really affects .
julian , england it is sensible to have an asylum policy -lrb- i saw those fleeing the 1956 hungarian revolution -rrb- but we must set an annual quota say 10,000 and enforce it strictly .
all the uncontrolled immigration into the uk should be stopped immediately .
we must man every port and search every lorry .
if necessary using a central european holding area , for distribution equally of peoples within europe with no prior or eventual choice where the individual family should go .
finally to the media , whenever this issue comes up can we have some reporting balance .
if you have the opinions of the refugee council or the un on the pro side can we the british people have someone representing the anti-immigration side .
steve , uk in reply to andy , ukraine .
surely the way forward is to build a better life and society in ukraine , not expect someone else to provide it for you ?
if these potential migrants have valuable skills to offer they should utilise them to benefit their own societies .
david st john , uk the real problem -lrb- financially at least -rrb- are the landlords who charge local authorities thousands of pounds a week -lrb- you read correctly -rrb- to accommodate families in tiny bed-sits .
the landlords are profiting from this hugely , and the media points the finger at the people who stay in the flats .
look at who is benefiting and you will find a network of corruption -lrb- on the part of landlords and people smugglers -rrb- and ineptitude -lrb- on the part of local and national authorities -rrb- that has nothing to do with the people who are coming to the uk .
the government seems happy to line some people 's pockets whilst accusing refugees of being the problem .
what kind of country do we live in where we allow this ?
duncan drury , uk britain is not a soft touch at all .
people sell their last possessions to prove consuls that they are " rich " by showing bank accounts , people are risking their lives going inside a lorry or refrigerator trucks across borders .
they all want one thing : to live , to work and earn something .
people in rural areas of ukraine do not work anywhere , they do not have tv , they do not have anything !
do you know what is to have nothing ?
oh , you do n't , you only judge .
read this , and think for a while .
try to imagine .
andy , ukraine to make sure that this process is successful it must be organised bernard browne , uk it must be right to welcome people who are in danger in their home countries and it makes economic sense to welcome migrants that can add something to the future well being of our people .
to make sure that this process is successful it must be organised .
at the moment we do not know the number of illegal entrants to the country and whether or not they deserve to be welcomed .
we have to be honest about the numbers of people seeking our help .
your header quotes 76,000 newcomers but the 76,000 relates to applications and not people .
bernard browne , u.k. i am tired of hearing the " well you colonised their countries " argument , i never colonised anywhere , most people were not even born during the imperial era .
i do n't mind lending support to people who really need it , it 's a normal part of life , but i 'm sick of people trying to make us feel guilty for the colonial past .
do these people think that you can judge the past by today 's standards ?
do they think that we should " pay " for our ancestors ' " crimes " ?
i say grow up to those who use these arguments , you will be taken a lot more seriously if you use proper sensible arguments , rather than trying to make people feel guilty for things they read only in history books .
michael gahan , ireland ca n't we just be grateful that we live in a country that other people actually want to come to ?
dom , uk ca n't we just be grateful that we live in a country that other people actually want to come to ?
i wish those who are complaining about refugees could just see the very real and desperate situation that these people are fleeing from .
then they might just count their lucky stars and be a little more gracious in sharing out the enormous wealth that we are so lucky to have .
dom , uk how many of you who give comment here are a really british ?
dawit arshak , new zealand it 's interesting that when the media raises the subject of immigration , many news services -lrb- including the bbc -rrb- continually quote the home office figures that imply that immigrants contribute 2billion to the economy .
in fact the figures are for all " foreign born residents in the uk " and includes heads of billion dollar multinationals as well as the usual images of mothers clutching children from eastern europe .
without being made aware of that fact , it massively overstates the contribution made by all but a handful of migrants .
peter b , uk i believe that once they arrive they should be required to attend language classes so that if they are granted leave to stay they are in a position to obtain decent jobs more quickly june tills , uk because so few asylum seekers , etc. speak our language it is inevitable that they wish to remain in those parts of the country where they can find others of their own nationality .
i believe that once they arrive they should be required to attend language classes so that if they are granted leave to stay they are in a position to obtain decent jobs more quickly .
knowledge of the language would also make them more aware of their rights and it more difficult for employers to dupe them into accepting badly paid jobs in disgusting conditions .
june tills , uk as a law abiding tax payer i like most other people in this country would like to see the money spent on refugees , go into tackling crime and in particular the increasing drug usage .
duncs , england the issue should not stop with asylum seekers and illegal immigrants .
remember this government intends to change the immigration laws to allow indian it workers to stay to fill jobs in the uk .
british workers should be trained to fill these posts .
john , england we should welcome people in and help them gain the skills they need to contribute positively to their new environment .
we 're always complaining we have n't enough nurses , teachers , police , bus drivers , taxi drivers ... the list is endless .
we have a rapidly ageing population so it 's no good pulling up the drawbridge and singing ' rule britannia ' .
if only we could overcome our irrational fear of foreigners we might come to realise we all share the same planet and can only survive through co-operation .
bryan james , london , uk the birth rate in the uk is falling , and to be honest 76,000 people is a drop in the ocean anyway guy chapman , uk this harks back to the days of large-scale west indian immigration , when the cry of " taking our jobs " went up form people who , in the main , would n't touch the jobs which the west indians did with pride and to very high standards .
the birth rate in the uk is falling , and to be honest 76,000 people is a drop in the ocean anyway .
what 's happening is merely that as one form of illegal immigration is made less attractive -lrb- student visas , say -rrb- another is exploited .
why not let them in , let people come in honestly , work and pay tax until their case is heard , and grant exceptional leave to remain if they have useful skills ?
guy chapman , uk during ww ii every uk subject had a national identification number .
that system should be reintroduced as a method of controlling immigration in terms of who and who does not get " freebies . "
once you get control , you can regulate who is a genuine case deserving of admission and who is not .
without control , there is resentment , then chaos , then and retaliation .
robert duncumb , usa people are starving - are you surprised that they want to come somewhere where they wo n't be ?
dave , uk for all the people that insult ' economic migrants ' , what would you do , were you one of them ?
would you try to get to a country where you knew where your next meal was coming from ?
remember that we are reaping what we sowed when we expected eastern europeans to open their economies to rapacious laissez-faire capitalism .
people are starving - are you surprised that they want to come somewhere where they wo n't be ?
dave , uk what a good idea .
let 's force all asylum seekers to seek refuge in the first safe country that they get to , that way we wo n't have to take any here .
get real !
let 's not forget that many of these people have suffered terrible hardship and persecution .
we in the uk are always complaining about something or other - we do n't realise how lucky we are !
alison , uk in as much as the uk tries to define itself as a ' soft touch ' country it does not address the real issues like the brain drain they are contributing to developing countries .
an example is the recent recruitment of doctors and nurses from south africa , zimbabwe etc .
they should not stop genuine asylum seekers and other immigrants from those countries which have problems which to some extent the developed world has contributed to , by e.g. the sale of arms .
ken nyangena , nairobi , kenya a civilised society has a responsibility to provide refuge for people who have to flee their home country jonathan , london , uk a civilised society has a responsibility to provide refuge for people who , through no fault of their own , have to flee their home country and seek shelter and protection elsewhere .
we must not confuse asylum seekers with economic migrants .
they are completely different .
asylum seekers need help , protection and support .
i ca n't help but wonder what would happen if , for some reason , i needed to leave the uk because of persecution , and found other countries ' doors firmly shut .
we 're very fortunate in western europe to live in stable and democratic countries .
not everyone in the world is so lucky .
jonathan , london , uk europeans were n't stopped at the border when they insisted on colonising india , africa , etc .
they robbed and plundered those countries and left them in a state of destitution , and now they 're upset that those very citizens want to live in the countries which colonised them in the first place .
what goes around comes around , that 's all i can say .
susannah , australia the british sponsored sanctions on afghanistan and iraq produce political and economic migrants , drive innocent civilians out of their homes and make them resort to any possible means in order to reach a place where they can at least live .
these ill-fated people so wrongly choose to enter britain where they are stamped as bogus migrants .
if anyone is to blame for the so-called human trafficking and its associated complications , it should be the british government and its wrong policies towards the developing world .
hamid , afghanistan this problem is not just in europe .
it effects japan too and the questions are always the same .
look at america .
politicians are not stupid .
you have to be blind not to see the connection between millions of latin arrivals and economic growth in the usa .
as for the uk soft touch debate , germany and france have been taking in millions for years .
and how about the millions who came to the uk in the 50s , 60s , and 70s ?
i promise you that the secret agenda for immigration -lrb- asylum or otherwise -rrb- in whitehall is : more , more , more !
abdulfez , japan europeans seem to forget that most of their prosperity of today is based on the colonial exploitation of the past shivaraj , india europeans seem to forget that most of their prosperity of today is based on the colonial exploitation of the past .
what 's wrong with people seeking opportunities in their countries , when they did a similar thing in the past .
shivaraj , india there is definitely a solution to this particular ' problem ' or issue .
what europe should look out for first before they take any action is to know why there is the increase : because of the lack of jobs , insecurity , and poor social facilities .
so what europe should do is not only to look into eastern europe and develop there , but to also encourage their governments and private businessmen to invest in developing countries and develop the agricultural and agro-based industries which in the long run will bring economic emancipation , thereby halting or reducing the influx of asylum seekers into europe .
otherwise these people - who are as human as you , the europeans - and who must live , survive , and make a living , will continue to come to europe to fulfil one of the basic human rights : to get good quality food .
isaac agyeman , ghana europe should look to the usa for history to know that immigration causes long-term problems that ca n't be easily solved .
at what point is enough enough .
this planet is too populated and most asylum seeker head to north america , australasia , or europe .
we ca n't take in the world .
shall we say enough is enough when half the population is of any western country is comprised of foreign nationals ?
shall britian be half british , half indian .
shall germany be half german , half turkish .
shall france be half french , half vietnamese ?
then the real problems will begin when these groups seek to flex their political muscle and schools will be forced to have language and history classes in the foreigners language .
and political parties will accquiese to demands to reduce restrictions for further immigration , welfare , etc .
europe needs to concentrate on the european immigration first .
let china take in these asylum seekers .
but we know no-one wants to go there , now do they ?
nicolas , usa contrary to the paranoid beliefs of many , asylum seekers are not housed in the most palatial mansions - most are in privately-rented accommodation , generally extremely over-crowded , dirty and unhealthy to live in sara harris , uk what exactly is the problem with allowing asylum seekers / refugees into the uk ?
many can bring useful skills , and those who have been hounded out of their countries by war or civil disaster need all the help we can give them .
contrary to the paranoid beliefs of many , asylum seekers are not housed in the most palatial mansions london has to offer - most are in privately-rented accommodation , generally extremely over-crowded , dirty and unhealthy to live in .
if they are placed in council accommodation , they are generally forced to live alongside the lowest common denominators of our own society - those racist yobs who having no-one else lower than them on the social scale , seize the opportunity to condemn immigrants as being the " scum of the earth " .
sara harris , uk there is a great degree of confidence amongst anti-immigration speakers that they themselves will never be seeking asylum .
perhaps empathy is what is lacking at the moment but is that surprising coming from a nation with an ideology of empire and dominance ?
bobby , uk surely as a nation we should be flattered that people want to come here rather than go somewhere else .
anyway , i fail to see how it is perceived in this country that we are overrun by asylum-seekers when other major european countries have as many , or if not more , people seeking asylum .
once again the average person in the street is being whipped up into a frenzy by the right-wing -lrb- intolerant -rrb- press in much the same way as over the euro .
why is it not possible to have sensible debate in the uk anymore ?
sometimes i despair !
steven , uk anyone who saw the recent documentary about the hellish existence of asylum seekers in liverpool , could hardly call the uk a soft touch .
yet in a world driven by capitalism wealthy countries like ours will always be a magnet .
perhaps what is needed is a bit more compassion and understanding and a lot less tabloid-led spite .
stewart , uk it 's funny how tom from australia is quick to criticise the uk and europe .
when his nation is one of the toughest with immigration in the world .
sam wren , england the government and opposition and the media are all very quick to condemn asylum seekers - and let us not forget that the majority of these are running away from something nasty .
the whole issue is manipulative and a disgrace !
are we a caring nation , or a bunch of racist nationalists ?
duncan drury , uk life for newly arrived asylum seekers is hard in britain .
they are not allowed to work for the first 6 months , they are given vouchers worth 70 % of income support -lrb- below the poverty line -rrb- from which they can get no cash change from the designated stores where they can be spent -lrb- not necessarily the cheapest -rrb- .
they are routinely traduced in the press and forced to live in slum housing preyed on by unscrupulous landlords .
fuelled by cynical politicians an atmosphere of racism surrounds the issue of asylum seekers that would be totally unacceptable with any other ethnic group .
that proud tradition is fast disappearing .
t saul , uk as usual , the british have woken up rather late to what is potentially a huge problem for the future of our country cameron teague , uk as usual , the british have woken up rather late to what is potentially a huge problem for the future of our country .
our lax asylum policies mean that our already stretched social services will be pushed to breaking point and our densely populated island will become even more overcrowded .
cameron teague , uk as long as britain remains one of the few countries where national id cards are not required to be carried by citizens , the uk will always be a soft touch to asylum seekers .
why else would asylum seekers want to come here and not to another anglophone country , e.g. ireland ?
david gatenby , germanny we must be a soft touch , if any of these people are genuine asylum seekers why is it they do n't seek asylum in the first eu country they come to .
instead of continuing across maybe 4 or 5 eu countries until they reach the uk .
terry , england i also see no problem in welcoming people who want to adopt the work ethic of working for their keep john b , uk i see no problem in welcoming a limited number of people genuinely fleeing persecution .
i also see no problem in welcoming people who want to adopt the work ethic of working for their keep .
i think it is a disgrace that we allow so many unfounded people to arrive , pay them benefits for the huge time it takes to process their application , grant them legal aid to appeal against refusals , give them homes when our own citizens -lrb- taxpayers ? -rrb- sleep rough on the streets , and give them free medical care when our own taxpayers wait on trolleys for hours .
i broadly agree with the tory plan - keep them in a detention centre and process their claims fast .
if accepted , they are free to live here and if not they are summarily deported .
john b , uk surely there should now be some form of eu centre for asylum seekers .
this centre should be responsible for dispersing the people on a fair basis throughout europe , with anyone appearing in dover illegally being sent to the centre for processing .
this is one problem europe should collectively deal with .
craig , uk luck had me born in iraq .
i did not chose it nor my parents .
luck had you born in the uk , you did not chose it nor your parents .
would you like to swap places with me , so that you will have to chose between a miserable existence in iraq , or being called a scrounger by those who by luck were born here ?
those who are born with good fortunes have the opportunity to help others less fortunate .
hussein , uk there are always despotic countries and it ca n't be much fun living under these regimes but allowing their populations to come here is not the solution .
the health service alone can barely cope with the present population without adding hundreds of thousands more .
john c , uk they take very little action to actually remove rejected applicants gus swan , uk where i live , in haringey , its easy to see the impact these people are having on already scant public housing and social support resources .
there has to be something wrong when people will pass through attractive locations like austria , italy , germany , france , etc . , just to reach our shores .
these workers may ease our short-term labour shortage for menial jobs , but the economic expansion wo n't go on forever .
most are unskilled , have poor english , are employed on the black economy and their presence holds down pay and conditions for the least skilled and poorest in our labour market .
i am not a racist .
i do not object to anyone coming to this country who is self-supporting and has skills to offer .
you can not offer asylum to entire populations .
the real scandal is how lackadaisical our governments -lrb- of whatever party -rrb- have reacted to this .
they may reject 80 per cent of asylum claims , but they take very little action to actually remove rejected applicants - only 10 per cent are deported .
that is why the migrants are swarming around calais - they know that once you are in , you 're in .
gus swan , uk its easy for so called opinion formers to sit in their country homes and call those who speak up against the tidal wave of refugees " racist " .
but then they do n't have to live with the consequences .
i live in the east end of london and can tell you quite categorically that the continued flood of illegal immigrants breeds resentment against the legitimate political refugees who have every right to be here .
oscar , uk there are around 13 million refugees world wide ; in 1997 the uk took in a mere 0.05 % of them .
the idea that we are being flooded by " bogus " asylum seekers is both preposterous and insulting to those who are forced to flee their homes against their wishes .
in any case , who are we to distinguish between political and economic migrants ?
poverty and persecution are often inextricably linked .
will snell , united kingdom england , and it is virtually only england that is affected by huge numbers of immigrants and asylum seekers , is a very small country .
we simply can not and should not take in any more people .
we have virtually no common land left , and are becoming extremely overcrowded .
our once green and pleasant land is full up .
we must , for the future of all those living here , close the doors - no matter who is asking to come in , or why .
kate himmens , england genuine yes , but any abusing the system should be thrown out .
two things we really need to consider is that firstly if we do n't sort the system out and make it tougher then the genuine ones get overlooked and remember there are a lot of people in this country in need of a decent education , health service , home etc .
also those countries are losing vital skills when people find their own country intolerable .
it 's not being hard-faced i think we just have to face the situation as it stands .
richard , reading uk it is not access to the country that should be restricted , but access to the welfare state .
it should be the case that potential immigrants be denied access to benefits and public housing for at least five years , and be in possession of a return air ticket .
if at any point they can not support themselves and their families there should be no question of the rest of us supporting them .
asylum seekers are a different matter- there should be a greater concentration on making asylum seekers claim asylum in the first safe country .
anyone who travels beyond the first safe country is trying to " choose " their place of refuge .
in effect these people are economic migrants and should be treated as such .
nick , uk i am in favour of accepting refugees whose lives may be in danger .
however , i feel that this has now gone too far - britain only has a finite amount of space and we simply can not keep accepting the amount of asylum seekers we do now .
perhaps we should stop accepting applications for asylum until the backlog is completed ?
andrew fryer , england of course we are a soft touch for immigrants and asylum seekers .
maybe it 's not so easy getting here in the first place , but when they do arrive , they are handed homes , benefits and access to the nhs for absolutely nothing .
where else would they be treated so well ?
the rest of europe does n't want them so we end up with them .
tina , uk the home office should make sure that if the application is unsuccessful then that person should be successfully deported .
ca n't be that difficult can it ?
nick , uk i think britain is a soft touch when it comes to asylum due to the recent bad publicity in the press on the issue , the genuine asylum seekers will suffer .
we are a small country and one can understand if this was happening in usa .
the home office should make sure that if the application is unsuccessful then that person should be successfully deported .
ca n't be that difficult can it ?
nick , uk " immigration campaigners " ... who voted for these people ?
while one would not necessarily want to see the immigration door completely shut , it is surely inappropriate to have huge numbers of people arriving in the uk -lrb- or here in the us , come to that -rrb- who neither speak the language or even attempt to assimilate - the self same people who then demand -lrb- no less -rrb- their " rights " .
in as much as we tolerate this , as a society , i guess we are , indeed , an " easy touch " !
mark m. newdick , usa / uk it 's good that these people of different races and cultures should be welcomed to europe with open arms .
now the natives can relax over the decreasing birth rate and look forward to a more diverse and interesting cultural mix .
susy fowler , uk britain has in recent years been very xenophobic over the question of refugees , not realising that refugees actually put a lot more into this country than they take out george , uk perhaps it would be appropriate if countries like uk would take responsibility for their own actions , and accept refugees from areas where the uk has been involved in conflict .
britain has in recent years been very xenophobic over the question of refugees , not realising that refugees actually put a lot more into this country than they take out .
george , uk no , we 're not a soft touch , what we are is a desirable destination , hence the large numbers of incoming immigrants that we currently have .
d. lewis , england allow them in , let them access the job market and educational facilities .
as long as the people coming in are law-abiding , we should welcome them .
tom , australia 76,000 people constitute a small town and whilst this maybe sustainable , for a few years , were asylum seekers to be dispersed throughout the country , i.e. the uk as a whole martin , uk 76,000 people constitute a small town and whilst this maybe sustainable , for a few years , were asylum seekers to be dispersed throughout the country , i.e. the uk as a whole .
the fact is many of the recent arrivals choose to stay in london .
that is , even to the extent of leaving housing allocated to them in the north to return to the capital .
london of all places can not absorb this many people on a regular basis and so , these people should be returned to their own countries or in the case of persecution a country nearer to their country of origin .
the wealthier countries should then provide economic assistance to those countries accepting refugees .
martin , uk since we -lrb- the eu -rrb- are going to need approx .
75 million newcomers over the next 50 years in order to sustain the economic prosperity we have now , i do n't see how this should all be so problematic .
the majority of the problems that the people are fleeing from world-wide are a direct consequence of our behaviour over the last 3 to 4 centuries anyway , so we owe them .
jose fernandez , netherlands should we be more welcoming to immigrants ?
have n't we got enough here already ?
we should have much tougher immigration controls and a much speedier removal process for failed applicants .
europe -lrb- especially the uk -rrb- is definitely seen as a free-for-all .
why should we be a magnet for thousands of people who ca n't get their own countries in order ?
joe , london , uk search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide see also : 09 feb 01 -pipe- europe anglo-french summit targets immigration 06 feb 01 -pipe- europe asylum seekers : europe 's dilemma internet links : home office immigration and asylum bill the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites other talking points : was it right to bomb baghdad ?
the euro : what do you think ?
do we forget too quickly ?
what would you do with the dome ?
have you lost faith in the nhs ?
are we a nation of fatties ?
is romance dead ?
gm : should europe press ahead ?
should the retirement age be scrapped ?
human genome : nature or nurture ?
sharon 's victory : what next ?
links to more talking point stories in this section was it right to bomb baghdad ?
the euro : what do you think ?
do we forget too quickly ?
what would you do with the dome ?
have you lost faith in the nhs ?
are we a nation of fatties ?
is romance dead ?
gm : should europe press ahead ?
should the retirement age be scrapped ?
human genome : nature or nurture ?
sharon 's victory : what next ?
asylum : what should europe do ? ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- talking point -pipe- asylum : what should europe do ?
front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- talking point contents : forum -pipe- bbc news online : talking point monday , 19 february , 2001 , 08:40 gmt asylum : what should europe do ?
the french ambassador to britain , daniel bernard has said that britain is seen as a " soft touch " by asylum seekers .
last year , 76,000 asylum seekers found their way across the channel , making the uk the most popular destination in the european union .
but the problem is not restricted to the uk .
eu home affairs ministers met this week to discuss an eu-wide policy on asylum seekers .
immigration campaigners argue that as the eu population ages and the labour market tightens , eu policies should seek to encourage , and not deter newcomers .
is europe a fortress or a free-for-all ?
should britain and the eu be more welcoming to asylum seekers and other immigrants ?
this talking point is now closed .
a selection of your e-mails are posted below .
i live in a council estate in glasgow which has recently been refurbished to house asylum seekers angela , scotland i live in a council estate in glasgow which has recently been refurbished to house asylum seekers .
now for those of us who are in the minority who actually pay the £ 300 rent a month to stay here , it is somewhat galling to read all the reports about the poor state of refugee housing and lack of financial help .
all the houses in our area were freshly decorated and fitted out with all mod cons - including heating - so at least a few of the asylum seekers are not living in the abject poverty the asylum seekers council likes to capture headlines with .
in fact i think it would be more interesting to find out how a section of these " asylum seekers " can afford cars , mobile phones and the latest clothing .
angela , scotland labour have been blaming the conservative government for 4 years now for every problem they encounter .
is n't it about time they took responsibility for the asylum seekers issue ?
they should concentrate on resolving it rather than swiping at the tories to improve their position for the upcoming election .
colin jordan , england having read your words , i am so amazed that most of you europeans think that it 's only your problem and applies to no other country in the world .
yes , maybe your political conditions are in a more suitable form , but it does n't mean that people take advantage of that !
leili shams , tehran , iran a european initiative should only be welcomed if it establishes a fair and efficient system ; bureaucratic checks such as those in the uk are a misplaced attempt to control numbers and result , in at best , rough justice .
sadly , many are fleeing from persecution , and worse , it is an insult to brave women and men to haggle about the cost , and to seek ways to reduce numbers granted asylum .
ted clapham , uk worrying about immigration is a symptom of a greater malaise paul , brit in switzerland i 'm not surprised people in the uk are worried about asylum seekers .
this issue embodies a more general feeling that in the uk everything 's already too crowded , overloaded , with too many people fighting over too few resources -lrb- e.g. public resources e.g. trains , roads , healthcare , education -rrb- .
worrying about immigration is a symptom of a greater malaise , which will not be fixed until people realise that you do n't get a fair , well-functioning society without wanting to invest your money in it for the long-term .
paul , brit in switzerland -lrb- economic migrant -rrb- i do n't know whether britain is a soft touch compared to continental europe when it comes to seeking asylum .
the official figures suggest otherwise .
but if someone really does fear for their life or freedom in their own country i think we have a duty to let them settle here .
many have sold all their possessions to raise the money to travel and it is downright cruel to take the cynical view that they 're coming here to scrounge off the state .
tabloids and the tories should be ashamed of themselves .
the uk is a good country to flee to because foreigners are likely to feel more at home here , due to our large immigrant population .
phil george , uk if we are not viewed as a " soft touch " , why are these so called asylum seekers choosing to travel through up to six different countries before applying for asylum ?
it is interesting to note that the labour government has recently appointed many new customs officers to crack down on tobacco smuggling .
a pity they could not also appoint an extra immigration officers to help keep down the thousands on the road / sea at this moment who will eventually try and enter uk .
bruce m allan , uk i am not racist , i accept that we have a duty to offer sanctuary to those fleeing from persecution , and indeed , i am happy that we are seen as a tolerant and welcoming nation .
however , i am also nationalistic , -lrb- by this i mean proud to be english , nothing sinister -rrb- , and that we should first look to our own taxpayers and welfare claimants .
we have limited resources , limited housing and limited employment .
i accept that economic migrants want a better standard of living , but should it be at the expense of some of our own citizens .
luckily i am not in a desperate position , but there are many pensioners , single mothers , teenagers on the streets who live in terrible conditions and should take first call on this country 's resources .
genuine refugees who flee from persecution , yes .
economic migrants , no .
diane , uk the health service is in crisis during the winter months , housing is restricted , schools are struggling , yet we want to allow over 100,000 people a year into the country ?
i want my taxes spent on my children 's future , not on people who have contributed nothing to this country !
paul , altrincham , britain in my experience people that come to the uk end up making a significant contribution to the economic and cultural wealth of this country .
immigration is a positive thing .
the uk is the preferred destination i hear .
well we should be proud of that .
maybe it is because it is a soft touch but i also think that it is because the british are regarded as being quite a reasonable and friendly bunch .
after all we are a nation of immigrants -lrb- apart from a few ancient celts -lrb- wherever they may live ! -rrb- .
finally immigration creates links between this country and the " home " country - a great way to build links around the world .
come on in - that 's what i say .
the more the better .
andrew , london so all those who have raised objections to asylum processing policy in this forum are frenzied bigots , incapable of compassion or rational argument - according to the sixth form opinions of so many other postings .
having a rational argument involves looking at the facts rather than venting your prejudices .
i can only speak for myself , though i think most like-minded people bear no ill-will to economic migrants and are happy to support genuine , substantiated asylum claims via the internationally-agreed procedure .
i agree that conditions for asylum applicants are pretty wretched - all the more reason for them to be dissuaded - but i grew up in glasgow and there are still some pretty wretched places there .
this is not the land of milk and honey by any stretch of the imagination .
where we are born is a matter of luck , and i sympathise with those who do not get dealt the same hand as myself .
but their best plan is to work to make their own lands better places to live rather than just abandoning them .
gus swan , united kingdom in no sense is the uk a " soft touch " whatever that term means .
the uk has a higher rate of refusal of asylum claims than many other european countries including almost blanket refusals to countries such as iran and even iraq -lrb- despite our continued sanctions and bombing -rrb- , the voucher regime is degrading and leaves asylum seekers with subsistence income driving some into illegal working in jobs most uk residents would not do for wages lower than the minimum wage .
asylum seekers are legally banned from working leading to resentment as they appear to be " hanging around " and a few turn to begging -lrb- which i do not condone -rrb- and some into crime .
the vast majority are trapped in a enforced waiting to hear their case in a hostile environment .
some asylum seekers may be economic migrants as opportunities for economic migration into europe have been closed .
europe has a moral duty and would gain economic benefits from allowing greater economic migration .
europe needs to ensure a fair and just asylum policy alongside a regulated immigration policy .
steven weeks , united kingdom it all seems so smug for people to comment when the problem does not affect them julian , england i do not have to deal with this issue as i , and i bet most people responding , live in a white dominated , mainly middle class and comfortable society .
well it is england , what do you expect ! ! .
i would love to hear from the people of dover and kent where the problem is enormous .
notice how critical the london respondents sound .
they live this every day .
long may tony blair 's immigration disaster remain 200 miles from me as it does with most of the people here .
it all seems so smug for people to comment when the problem does not affect them .
any chance of hearing from the people it really affects .
julian , england it is sensible to have an asylum policy -lrb- i saw those fleeing the 1956 hungarian revolution -rrb- but we must set an annual quota say 10,000 and enforce it strictly .
all the uncontrolled immigration into the uk should be stopped immediately .
we must man every port and search every lorry .
if necessary using a central european holding area , for distribution equally of peoples within europe with no prior or eventual choice where the individual family should go .
finally to the media , whenever this issue comes up can we have some reporting balance .
if you have the opinions of the refugee council or the un on the pro side can we the british people have someone representing the anti-immigration side .
steve , uk in reply to andy , ukraine .
surely the way forward is to build a better life and society in ukraine , not expect someone else to provide it for you ?
if these potential migrants have valuable skills to offer they should utilise them to benefit their own societies .
david st john , uk the real problem -lrb- financially at least -rrb- are the landlords who charge local authorities thousands of pounds a week -lrb- you read correctly -rrb- to accommodate families in tiny bed-sits .
the landlords are profiting from this hugely , and the media points the finger at the people who stay in the flats .
look at who is benefiting and you will find a network of corruption -lrb- on the part of landlords and people smugglers -rrb- and ineptitude -lrb- on the part of local and national authorities -rrb- that has nothing to do with the people who are coming to the uk .
the government seems happy to line some people 's pockets whilst accusing refugees of being the problem .
what kind of country do we live in where we allow this ?
duncan drury , uk britain is not a soft touch at all .
people sell their last possessions to prove consuls that they are " rich " by showing bank accounts , people are risking their lives going inside a lorry or refrigerator trucks across borders .
they all want one thing : to live , to work and earn something .
people in rural areas of ukraine do not work anywhere , they do not have tv , they do not have anything !
do you know what is to have nothing ?
oh , you do n't , you only judge .
read this , and think for a while .
try to imagine .
andy , ukraine to make sure that this process is successful it must be organised bernard browne , uk it must be right to welcome people who are in danger in their home countries and it makes economic sense to welcome migrants that can add something to the future well being of our people .
to make sure that this process is successful it must be organised .
at the moment we do not know the number of illegal entrants to the country and whether or not they deserve to be welcomed .
we have to be honest about the numbers of people seeking our help .
your header quotes 76,000 newcomers but the 76,000 relates to applications and not people .
bernard browne , u.k. i am tired of hearing the " well you colonised their countries " argument , i never colonised anywhere , most people were not even born during the imperial era .
i do n't mind lending support to people who really need it , it 's a normal part of life , but i 'm sick of people trying to make us feel guilty for the colonial past .
do these people think that you can judge the past by today 's standards ?
do they think that we should " pay " for our ancestors ' " crimes " ?
i say grow up to those who use these arguments , you will be taken a lot more seriously if you use proper sensible arguments , rather than trying to make people feel guilty for things they read only in history books .
michael gahan , ireland ca n't we just be grateful that we live in a country that other people actually want to come to ?
dom , uk ca n't we just be grateful that we live in a country that other people actually want to come to ?
i wish those who are complaining about refugees could just see the very real and desperate situation that these people are fleeing from .
then they might just count their lucky stars and be a little more gracious in sharing out the enormous wealth that we are so lucky to have .
dom , uk how many of you who give comment here are a really british ?
dawit arshak , new zealand it 's interesting that when the media raises the subject of immigration , many news services -lrb- including the bbc -rrb- continually quote the home office figures that imply that immigrants contribute 2billion to the economy .
in fact the figures are for all " foreign born residents in the uk " and includes heads of billion dollar multinationals as well as the usual images of mothers clutching children from eastern europe .
without being made aware of that fact , it massively overstates the contribution made by all but a handful of migrants .
peter b , uk i believe that once they arrive they should be required to attend language classes so that if they are granted leave to stay they are in a position to obtain decent jobs more quickly june tills , uk because so few asylum seekers , etc. speak our language it is inevitable that they wish to remain in those parts of the country where they can find others of their own nationality .
i believe that once they arrive they should be required to attend language classes so that if they are granted leave to stay they are in a position to obtain decent jobs more quickly .
knowledge of the language would also make them more aware of their rights and it more difficult for employers to dupe them into accepting badly paid jobs in disgusting conditions .
june tills , uk as a law abiding tax payer i like most other people in this country would like to see the money spent on refugees , go into tackling crime and in particular the increasing drug usage .
duncs , england the issue should not stop with asylum seekers and illegal immigrants .
remember this government intends to change the immigration laws to allow indian it workers to stay to fill jobs in the uk .
british workers should be trained to fill these posts .
john , england we should welcome people in and help them gain the skills they need to contribute positively to their new environment .
we 're always complaining we have n't enough nurses , teachers , police , bus drivers , taxi drivers ... the list is endless .
we have a rapidly ageing population so it 's no good pulling up the drawbridge and singing ' rule britannia ' .
if only we could overcome our irrational fear of foreigners we might come to realise we all share the same planet and can only survive through co-operation .
bryan james , london , uk the birth rate in the uk is falling , and to be honest 76,000 people is a drop in the ocean anyway guy chapman , uk this harks back to the days of large-scale west indian immigration , when the cry of " taking our jobs " went up form people who , in the main , would n't touch the jobs which the west indians did with pride and to very high standards .
the birth rate in the uk is falling , and to be honest 76,000 people is a drop in the ocean anyway .
what 's happening is merely that as one form of illegal immigration is made less attractive -lrb- student visas , say -rrb- another is exploited .
why not let them in , let people come in honestly , work and pay tax until their case is heard , and grant exceptional leave to remain if they have useful skills ?
guy chapman , uk during ww ii every uk subject had a national identification number .
that system should be reintroduced as a method of controlling immigration in terms of who and who does not get " freebies . "
once you get control , you can regulate who is a genuine case deserving of admission and who is not .
without control , there is resentment , then chaos , then and retaliation .
robert duncumb , usa people are starving - are you surprised that they want to come somewhere where they wo n't be ?
dave , uk for all the people that insult ' economic migrants ' , what would you do , were you one of them ?
would you try to get to a country where you knew where your next meal was coming from ?
remember that we are reaping what we sowed when we expected eastern europeans to open their economies to rapacious laissez-faire capitalism .
people are starving - are you surprised that they want to come somewhere where they wo n't be ?
dave , uk what a good idea .
let 's force all asylum seekers to seek refuge in the first safe country that they get to , that way we wo n't have to take any here .
get real !
let 's not forget that many of these people have suffered terrible hardship and persecution .
we in the uk are always complaining about something or other - we do n't realise how lucky we are !
alison , uk in as much as the uk tries to define itself as a ' soft touch ' country it does not address the real issues like the brain drain they are contributing to developing countries .
an example is the recent recruitment of doctors and nurses from south africa , zimbabwe etc .
they should not stop genuine asylum seekers and other immigrants from those countries which have problems which to some extent the developed world has contributed to , by e.g. the sale of arms .
ken nyangena , nairobi , kenya a civilised society has a responsibility to provide refuge for people who have to flee their home country jonathan , london , uk a civilised society has a responsibility to provide refuge for people who , through no fault of their own , have to flee their home country and seek shelter and protection elsewhere .
we must not confuse asylum seekers with economic migrants .
they are completely different .
asylum seekers need help , protection and support .
i ca n't help but wonder what would happen if , for some reason , i needed to leave the uk because of persecution , and found other countries ' doors firmly shut .
we 're very fortunate in western europe to live in stable and democratic countries .
not everyone in the world is so lucky .
jonathan , london , uk europeans were n't stopped at the border when they insisted on colonising india , africa , etc .
they robbed and plundered those countries and left them in a state of destitution , and now they 're upset that those very citizens want to live in the countries which colonised them in the first place .
what goes around comes around , that 's all i can say .
susannah , australia the british sponsored sanctions on afghanistan and iraq produce political and economic migrants , drive innocent civilians out of their homes and make them resort to any possible means in order to reach a place where they can at least live .
these ill-fated people so wrongly choose to enter britain where they are stamped as bogus migrants .
if anyone is to blame for the so-called human trafficking and its associated complications , it should be the british government and its wrong policies towards the developing world .
hamid , afghanistan this problem is not just in europe .
it effects japan too and the questions are always the same .
look at america .
politicians are not stupid .
you have to be blind not to see the connection between millions of latin arrivals and economic growth in the usa .
as for the uk soft touch debate , germany and france have been taking in millions for years .
and how about the millions who came to the uk in the 50s , 60s , and 70s ?
i promise you that the secret agenda for immigration -lrb- asylum or otherwise -rrb- in whitehall is : more , more , more !
abdulfez , japan europeans seem to forget that most of their prosperity of today is based on the colonial exploitation of the past shivaraj , india europeans seem to forget that most of their prosperity of today is based on the colonial exploitation of the past .
what 's wrong with people seeking opportunities in their countries , when they did a similar thing in the past .
shivaraj , india there is definitely a solution to this particular ' problem ' or issue .
what europe should look out for first before they take any action is to know why there is the increase : because of the lack of jobs , insecurity , and poor social facilities .
so what europe should do is not only to look into eastern europe and develop there , but to also encourage their governments and private businessmen to invest in developing countries and develop the agricultural and agro-based industries which in the long run will bring economic emancipation , thereby halting or reducing the influx of asylum seekers into europe .
otherwise these people - who are as human as you , the europeans - and who must live , survive , and make a living , will continue to come to europe to fulfil one of the basic human rights : to get good quality food .
isaac agyeman , ghana europe should look to the usa for history to know that immigration causes long-term problems that ca n't be easily solved .
at what point is enough enough .
this planet is too populated and most asylum seeker head to north america , australasia , or europe .
we ca n't take in the world .
shall we say enough is enough when half the population is of any western country is comprised of foreign nationals ?
shall britian be half british , half indian .
shall germany be half german , half turkish .
shall france be half french , half vietnamese ?
then the real problems will begin when these groups seek to flex their political muscle and schools will be forced to have language and history classes in the foreigners language .
and political parties will accquiese to demands to reduce restrictions for further immigration , welfare , etc .
europe needs to concentrate on the european immigration first .
let china take in these asylum seekers .
but we know no-one wants to go there , now do they ?
nicolas , usa contrary to the paranoid beliefs of many , asylum seekers are not housed in the most palatial mansions - most are in privately-rented accommodation , generally extremely over-crowded , dirty and unhealthy to live in sara harris , uk what exactly is the problem with allowing asylum seekers / refugees into the uk ?
many can bring useful skills , and those who have been hounded out of their countries by war or civil disaster need all the help we can give them .
contrary to the paranoid beliefs of many , asylum seekers are not housed in the most palatial mansions london has to offer - most are in privately-rented accommodation , generally extremely over-crowded , dirty and unhealthy to live in .
if they are placed in council accommodation , they are generally forced to live alongside the lowest common denominators of our own society - those racist yobs who having no-one else lower than them on the social scale , seize the opportunity to condemn immigrants as being the " scum of the earth " .
sara harris , uk there is a great degree of confidence amongst anti-immigration speakers that they themselves will never be seeking asylum .
perhaps empathy is what is lacking at the moment but is that surprising coming from a nation with an ideology of empire and dominance ?
bobby , uk surely as a nation we should be flattered that people want to come here rather than go somewhere else .
anyway , i fail to see how it is perceived in this country that we are overrun by asylum-seekers when other major european countries have as many , or if not more , people seeking asylum .
once again the average person in the street is being whipped up into a frenzy by the right-wing -lrb- intolerant -rrb- press in much the same way as over the euro .
why is it not possible to have sensible debate in the uk anymore ?
sometimes i despair !
steven , uk anyone who saw the recent documentary about the hellish existence of asylum seekers in liverpool , could hardly call the uk a soft touch .
yet in a world driven by capitalism wealthy countries like ours will always be a magnet .
perhaps what is needed is a bit more compassion and understanding and a lot less tabloid-led spite .
stewart , uk it 's funny how tom from australia is quick to criticise the uk and europe .
when his nation is one of the toughest with immigration in the world .
sam wren , england the government and opposition and the media are all very quick to condemn asylum seekers - and let us not forget that the majority of these are running away from something nasty .
the whole issue is manipulative and a disgrace !
are we a caring nation , or a bunch of racist nationalists ?
duncan drury , uk life for newly arrived asylum seekers is hard in britain .
they are not allowed to work for the first 6 months , they are given vouchers worth 70 % of income support -lrb- below the poverty line -rrb- from which they can get no cash change from the designated stores where they can be spent -lrb- not necessarily the cheapest -rrb- .
they are routinely traduced in the press and forced to live in slum housing preyed on by unscrupulous landlords .
fuelled by cynical politicians an atmosphere of racism surrounds the issue of asylum seekers that would be totally unacceptable with any other ethnic group .
that proud tradition is fast disappearing .
t saul , uk as usual , the british have woken up rather late to what is potentially a huge problem for the future of our country cameron teague , uk as usual , the british have woken up rather late to what is potentially a huge problem for the future of our country .
our lax asylum policies mean that our already stretched social services will be pushed to breaking point and our densely populated island will become even more overcrowded .
cameron teague , uk as long as britain remains one of the few countries where national id cards are not required to be carried by citizens , the uk will always be a soft touch to asylum seekers .
why else would asylum seekers want to come here and not to another anglophone country , e.g. ireland ?
david gatenby , germanny we must be a soft touch , if any of these people are genuine asylum seekers why is it they do n't seek asylum in the first eu country they come to .
instead of continuing across maybe 4 or 5 eu countries until they reach the uk .
terry , england i also see no problem in welcoming people who want to adopt the work ethic of working for their keep john b , uk i see no problem in welcoming a limited number of people genuinely fleeing persecution .
i also see no problem in welcoming people who want to adopt the work ethic of working for their keep .
i think it is a disgrace that we allow so many unfounded people to arrive , pay them benefits for the huge time it takes to process their application , grant them legal aid to appeal against refusals , give them homes when our own citizens -lrb- taxpayers ? -rrb- sleep rough on the streets , and give them free medical care when our own taxpayers wait on trolleys for hours .
i broadly agree with the tory plan - keep them in a detention centre and process their claims fast .
if accepted , they are free to live here and if not they are summarily deported .
john b , uk surely there should now be some form of eu centre for asylum seekers .
this centre should be responsible for dispersing the people on a fair basis throughout europe , with anyone appearing in dover illegally being sent to the centre for processing .
this is one problem europe should collectively deal with .
craig , uk luck had me born in iraq .
i did not chose it nor my parents .
luck had you born in the uk , you did not chose it nor your parents .
would you like to swap places with me , so that you will have to chose between a miserable existence in iraq , or being called a scrounger by those who by luck were born here ?
those who are born with good fortunes have the opportunity to help others less fortunate .
hussein , uk there are always despotic countries and it ca n't be much fun living under these regimes but allowing their populations to come here is not the solution .
the health service alone can barely cope with the present population without adding hundreds of thousands more .
john c , uk they take very little action to actually remove rejected applicants gus swan , uk where i live , in haringey , its easy to see the impact these people are having on already scant public housing and social support resources .
there has to be something wrong when people will pass through attractive locations like austria , italy , germany , france , etc . , just to reach our shores .
these workers may ease our short-term labour shortage for menial jobs , but the economic expansion wo n't go on forever .
most are unskilled , have poor english , are employed on the black economy and their presence holds down pay and conditions for the least skilled and poorest in our labour market .
i am not a racist .
i do not object to anyone coming to this country who is self-supporting and has skills to offer .
you can not offer asylum to entire populations .
the real scandal is how lackadaisical our governments -lrb- of whatever party -rrb- have reacted to this .
they may reject 80 per cent of asylum claims , but they take very little action to actually remove rejected applicants - only 10 per cent are deported .
that is why the migrants are swarming around calais - they know that once you are in , you 're in .
gus swan , uk its easy for so called opinion formers to sit in their country homes and call those who speak up against the tidal wave of refugees " racist " .
but then they do n't have to live with the consequences .
i live in the east end of london and can tell you quite categorically that the continued flood of illegal immigrants breeds resentment against the legitimate political refugees who have every right to be here .
oscar , uk there are around 13 million refugees world wide ; in 1997 the uk took in a mere 0.05 % of them .
the idea that we are being flooded by " bogus " asylum seekers is both preposterous and insulting to those who are forced to flee their homes against their wishes .
in any case , who are we to distinguish between political and economic migrants ?
poverty and persecution are often inextricably linked .
will snell , united kingdom england , and it is virtually only england that is affected by huge numbers of immigrants and asylum seekers , is a very small country .
we simply can not and should not take in any more people .
we have virtually no common land left , and are becoming extremely overcrowded .
our once green and pleasant land is full up .
we must , for the future of all those living here , close the doors - no matter who is asking to come in , or why .
kate himmens , england genuine yes , but any abusing the system should be thrown out .
two things we really need to consider is that firstly if we do n't sort the system out and make it tougher then the genuine ones get overlooked and remember there are a lot of people in this country in need of a decent education , health service , home etc .
also those countries are losing vital skills when people find their own country intolerable .
it 's not being hard-faced i think we just have to face the situation as it stands .
richard , reading uk it is not access to the country that should be restricted , but access to the welfare state .
it should be the case that potential immigrants be denied access to benefits and public housing for at least five years , and be in possession of a return air ticket .
if at any point they can not support themselves and their families there should be no question of the rest of us supporting them .
asylum seekers are a different matter- there should be a greater concentration on making asylum seekers claim asylum in the first safe country .
anyone who travels beyond the first safe country is trying to " choose " their place of refuge .
in effect these people are economic migrants and should be treated as such .
nick , uk i am in favour of accepting refugees whose lives may be in danger .
however , i feel that this has now gone too far - britain only has a finite amount of space and we simply can not keep accepting the amount of asylum seekers we do now .
perhaps we should stop accepting applications for asylum until the backlog is completed ?
andrew fryer , england of course we are a soft touch for immigrants and asylum seekers .
maybe it 's not so easy getting here in the first place , but when they do arrive , they are handed homes , benefits and access to the nhs for absolutely nothing .
where else would they be treated so well ?
the rest of europe does n't want them so we end up with them .
tina , uk the home office should make sure that if the application is unsuccessful then that person should be successfully deported .
ca n't be that difficult can it ?
nick , uk i think britain is a soft touch when it comes to asylum due to the recent bad publicity in the press on the issue , the genuine asylum seekers will suffer .
we are a small country and one can understand if this was happening in usa .
the home office should make sure that if the application is unsuccessful then that person should be successfully deported .
ca n't be that difficult can it ?
nick , uk " immigration campaigners " ... who voted for these people ?
while one would not necessarily want to see the immigration door completely shut , it is surely inappropriate to have huge numbers of people arriving in the uk -lrb- or here in the us , come to that -rrb- who neither speak the language or even attempt to assimilate - the self same people who then demand -lrb- no less -rrb- their " rights " .
in as much as we tolerate this , as a society , i guess we are , indeed , an " easy touch " !
mark m. newdick , usa / uk it 's good that these people of different races and cultures should be welcomed to europe with open arms .
now the natives can relax over the decreasing birth rate and look forward to a more diverse and interesting cultural mix .
susy fowler , uk britain has in recent years been very xenophobic over the question of refugees , not realising that refugees actually put a lot more into this country than they take out george , uk perhaps it would be appropriate if countries like uk would take responsibility for their own actions , and accept refugees from areas where the uk has been involved in conflict .
britain has in recent years been very xenophobic over the question of refugees , not realising that refugees actually put a lot more into this country than they take out .
george , uk no , we 're not a soft touch , what we are is a desirable destination , hence the large numbers of incoming immigrants that we currently have .
d. lewis , england allow them in , let them access the job market and educational facilities .
as long as the people coming in are law-abiding , we should welcome them .
tom , australia 76,000 people constitute a small town and whilst this maybe sustainable , for a few years , were asylum seekers to be dispersed throughout the country , i.e. the uk as a whole martin , uk 76,000 people constitute a small town and whilst this maybe sustainable , for a few years , were asylum seekers to be dispersed throughout the country , i.e. the uk as a whole .
the fact is many of the recent arrivals choose to stay in london .
that is , even to the extent of leaving housing allocated to them in the north to return to the capital .
london of all places can not absorb this many people on a regular basis and so , these people should be returned to their own countries or in the case of persecution a country nearer to their country of origin .
the wealthier countries should then provide economic assistance to those countries accepting refugees .
martin , uk since we -lrb- the eu -rrb- are going to need approx .
75 million newcomers over the next 50 years in order to sustain the economic prosperity we have now , i do n't see how this should all be so problematic .
the majority of the problems that the people are fleeing from world-wide are a direct consequence of our behaviour over the last 3 to 4 centuries anyway , so we owe them .
jose fernandez , netherlands should we be more welcoming to immigrants ?
have n't we got enough here already ?
we should have much tougher immigration controls and a much speedier removal process for failed applicants .
europe -lrb- especially the uk -rrb- is definitely seen as a free-for-all .
why should we be a magnet for thousands of people who ca n't get their own countries in order ?
joe , london , uk related to this story : anglo-french summit targets immigration -lrb- 09 feb 01 -pipe- europe -rrb- asylum seekers : europe 's dilemma -lrb- 06 feb 01 -pipe- europe -rrb- internet links : internet links : home office -pipe- immigration and asylum bill -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites .
front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- talking point contents : forum -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- partnership to curb accidents at work front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- bbc news online : uk monday , 19 february , 2001 , 09:18 gmt partnership to curb accidents at work unions and employers are launching a joint effort to try to reduce the number of accidents and illnesses at work .
lost production , accidents and the resulting strain on the nhs costs the uk an estimated £ 18bn a year .
the trade union congress -lrb- tuc -rrb- says 20,000 major injuries and more than 300,000 sick days could be avoided if firms work together to tackle health and safety issues .
partnership is about revitalising health and safety and can mean fewer injuries , few illnesses and fewer days off john monks , tuc firms that have already adopted a partnership approach have seen accident rates fall by more than 50 % , it says .
the initiative is being launched in london by the confederation of british industry and the tuc .
there are 20 safety partnership agreements in place across the uk and the tuc want to double that number by the end of next year .
the first partnerships were launched last year and include legal and general and white collar union msf and tesco and the shop workers union , usdaw .
they have seen accident rates fall dramatically .
' revitalise ' tuc general secretary john monks said his union was particularly concerned by accidents in the construction and rail industry .
" tragedies on the railways and in construction show that where partnerships do not exist , it is vital that we introduce them , " he said .
" partnership is about revitalising health and safety and can mean fewer injuries , few illnesses and fewer days off . "
according to government figures , accidents at work kill about 400 people each year in the uk , with 25 million working days lost annually through stress and illness .
biggest killer work-related ill-health forces more than 25,000 workers to give up their jobs each year and an estimated two million people suffer from bad health blamed on their workplace .
the numbers of workers suffering from stress has grown to 500,000 a year .
back problems are the most common work-related ailment and falls are the biggest killer .
less immediate but no less deadly is previous exposure to asbestos , which kills an estimated 3,000 people annually in the uk .
the government launched a 44-point action plan last june to tackle the huge cost to industry of health and safety problems .
related to this story : drive to curb accidents at work -lrb- 07 jun 00 -pipe- uk -rrb- workers ' safety blitz -lrb- 28 apr 00 -pipe- uk -rrb- stressed worker wins massive payout -lrb- 10 jan 00 -pipe- uk -rrb- worker wins pay-out for leg injuries -lrb- 07 dec 99 -pipe- business -rrb- internet links : health and safety executive -pipe- tuc -pipe- confederation of british industry -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- uk contents : england -pipe- northern ireland -pipe- scotland -pipe- wales -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- uk -pipe- partnership to curb accidents at work low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : uk front page world uk england northern ireland scotland wales uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo monday , 19 february , 2001 , 09:18 gmt partnership to curb accidents at work traditionally dangerous industries will be targeted unions and employers are launching a joint effort to try to reduce the number of accidents and illnesses at work .
lost production , accidents and the resulting strain on the nhs costs the uk an estimated £ 18bn a year .
the trade union congress -lrb- tuc -rrb- says 20,000 major injuries and more than 300,000 sick days could be avoided if firms work together to tackle health and safety issues .
partnership is about revitalising health and safety and can mean fewer injuries , few illnesses and fewer days off john monks , tuc firms that have already adopted a partnership approach have seen accident rates fall by more than 50 % , it says .
the initiative is being launched in london by the confederation of british industry and the tuc .
there are 20 safety partnership agreements in place across the uk and the tuc want to double that number by the end of next year .
the first partnerships were launched last year and include legal and general and white collar union msf and tesco and the shop workers union , usdaw .
they have seen accident rates fall dramatically .
' revitalise ' tuc general secretary john monks said his union was particularly concerned by accidents in the construction and rail industry .
" tragedies on the railways and in construction show that where partnerships do not exist , it is vital that we introduce them , " he said .
" partnership is about revitalising health and safety and can mean fewer injuries , few illnesses and fewer days off . "
according to government figures , accidents at work kill about 400 people each year in the uk , with 25 million working days lost annually through stress and illness .
biggest killer work-related ill-health forces more than 25,000 workers to give up their jobs each year and an estimated two million people suffer from bad health blamed on their workplace .
the numbers of workers suffering from stress has grown to 500,000 a year .
back problems are the most common work-related ailment and falls are the biggest killer .
less immediate but no less deadly is previous exposure to asbestos , which kills an estimated 3,000 people annually in the uk .
the government launched a 44-point action plan last june to tackle the huge cost to industry of health and safety problems .
search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide see also : 07 jun 00 -pipe- uk drive to curb accidents at work 28 apr 00 -pipe- uk workers ' safety blitz 10 jan 00 -pipe- uk stressed worker wins massive payout 07 dec 99 -pipe- business worker wins pay-out for leg injuries internet links : health and safety executive tuc confederation of british industry the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top uk stories now : postcode lottery in gp services leanne killer jailed for life tories attack brixton drugs scheme straw defends arms sales change ivf mix-up heads for court police shoot man on the m6 new challenge excites venables judge urges life sentence shake-up links to more uk stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more uk stories in this section postcode lottery in gp services leanne killer jailed for life tories attack brixton drugs scheme straw defends arms sales change ivf mix-up heads for court police shoot man on the m6 new challenge excites venables judge urges life sentence shake-up channel 4 boss warns of cuts inquiry into warship accident chicken checked for bse home collapses after council dig schoolboy ' murdered for £ 10 debt ' ' scout leader ' guilty of sex offences blair 's right-hand men under the spotlight parents to sue over epilepsy row parents ' court battle over mmr jab scots killed in alps fall margaret cook blasts ' nhs meddling ' drumcree violence ' unacceptable ' transplant first for cancer patient husband jailed for rape attack gm crop trial sites announced britain ' sheltering al-qaeda leader ' healthy eating in schools ' backfires ' political donation rules ' being broken ' soap actor killed in holiday fall church debates links with state troubled start to marching season link between poverty and truancy mobile phone giant denies pension risk clampdown on illegal food imports abortion plans ' irresponsible ' disabled pulled from burning minibus blunkett to review police reforms ' my mission with the uk marines ' facing up to life with hiv blame it on the driver phones , tones and mobile music amazing tales from planet tabloid the return of the seagulls does my bum look big in this boeing ?
quiz of the week 's news papers capture drumcree violence ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- egg 's losses deepen front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- business contents : market data -pipe- economy -pipe- companies -pipe- e-commerce -pipe- your money -pipe- business basics -pipe- bbc news online : business monday , 19 february , 2001 , 09:26 gmt egg 's losses deepen uk internet bank egg made losses of £ 155.3m last year , but insists that it is " bang on track " to break even during the last three months of this year .
the losses in 2000 showed no improvement over the previous year , when the online bank lost just under £ 149.7m.
egg said the financial results were in line with expectations and that the losses reflected investments in new products such as egg insure and egg invest .
" we have the strength of proposition , speed of delivery and stamina of management team to ensure egg will be a winner in the digital economy , " said chief executive paul gratton .
profit concerns egg in 2000 pre-tax loss - £ 155.3m operating income - £ 93.2m loss per share - 15.1p number of customers - 1.35 million but some analysts are sceptical whether egg can achieve its goals .
the company told bbc news online that it would achieve its goals by widening its margins on existing products , while keeping its operational costs under check .
and the bank claimed that it had already hit the peak of its development costs .
but its expansion plans still seem to require a great deal of investment , as it seeks opportunities abroad .
" we fully intend to become a global business , " mr gratton said , adding that the bank was currently exploring commercial partnerships with a number of significant european businesses .
growing customers the number of customers using egg is undoubtedly growing .
last year , the online bank attracted 559,000 new customers , bringing its total to 1.35 million users .
it said 140,000 new customers signed up in the last three months of the year .
egg 's new products egg insure egg invest egg boots card coming soon .
egg mortgage supermarket and a further 100,000 have been added in the first six weeks of the year .
egg is now prioritising cross-selling to take full advantage of this growing number of subscribers .
cross-selling means marketing the full spectrum of egg 's products to existing users .
last year , egg launched an insurance service for cars , homes and contents , and a supermarket for investors which includes a full online share trading capability , and the egg-boots card .
a mortgage supermarket is to be launched imminently .
increased competition egg is banking on its " first mover advantage " to carry it through a new wave of competition from established banks that now offer online banking such as co-op 's smile , abbey national 's cahoot and halifax 's intelligent finance .
being a " first mover " has been touted as a vital ingredient for success in the dot.com world , on the assumption that by being first , companies can secure a healthy chunk of the market share .
but experience shows that this is not always the case .
pure online shops , for example , are beginning to lose market share to traditional brands that have entered the internet market much later on .
the tie-up with uk chemist boots is a step towards using an existing brand name as an on-the-ground channel for internet ventures .
but paul gratton denies that this is a growing trend for egg , and is confident that " the online market is set to explode " .
egg floated on 12 june 2000 .
parent bank prudential still holds 79 % of the share capital .
its share price stood unchanged at 133p at 1000 gmt .
related to this story : barclays plans shopping portal -lrb- 12 oct 00 -pipe- business -rrb- consumers shy away from e-banking -lrb- 02 oct 00 -pipe- business -rrb- halifax 's web banking trouble -lrb- 02 oct 00 -pipe- business -rrb- online banking gets poll boost -lrb- 21 aug 00 -pipe- business -rrb- egg to create 1,500 jobs -lrb- 03 aug 00 -pipe- business -rrb- egg shares slip on loss -lrb- 26 jul 00 -pipe- business -rrb- online banks scramble for customers -lrb- 26 may 00 -pipe- business -rrb- egg adds customers and losses -lrb- 16 oct 00 -pipe- business -rrb- internet links : egg -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- high graphics -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- feedback -pipe- help -pipe- noticias -pipe- newyddion -pipe- bbc sport > > high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- business contents : market data -pipe- economy -pipe- companies -pipe- e-commerce -pipe- your money -pipe- business basics -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- business -pipe- egg 's losses deepen low graphics version -pipe- feedback -pipe- help you are in : business front page world uk uk politics business market data economy companies e-commerce your money business basics sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo the bbc 's sarah pennells " there 's a big difference between the levels of service offered by the internet banks " real 56k monday , 19 february , 2001 , 09:26 gmt egg 's losses deepen uk internet bank egg made losses of £ 155.3m last year , but insists that it is " bang on track " to break even during the last three months of this year .
the losses in 2000 showed no improvement over the previous year , when the online bank lost just under £ 149.7m.
egg said the financial results were in line with expectations and that the losses reflected investments in new products such as egg insure and egg invest .
" we have the strength of proposition , speed of delivery and stamina of management team to ensure egg will be a winner in the digital economy , " said chief executive paul gratton .
profit concerns egg in 2000 pre-tax loss - £ 155.3m operating income - £ 93.2m loss per share - 15.1p number of customers - 1.35 million but some analysts are sceptical whether egg can achieve its goals .
the company told bbc news online that it would achieve its goals by widening its margins on existing products , while keeping its operational costs under check .
and the bank claimed that it had already hit the peak of its development costs .
but its expansion plans still seem to require a great deal of investment , as it seeks opportunities abroad .
" we fully intend to become a global business , " mr gratton said , adding that the bank was currently exploring commercial partnerships with a number of significant european businesses .
growing customers the number of customers using egg is undoubtedly growing .
last year , the online bank attracted 559,000 new customers , bringing its total to 1.35 million users .
it said 140,000 new customers signed up in the last three months of the year .
egg 's new products egg insure egg invest egg boots card coming soon .
egg mortgage supermarket and a further 100,000 have been added in the first six weeks of the year .
egg is now prioritising cross-selling to take full advantage of this growing number of subscribers .
cross-selling means marketing the full spectrum of egg 's products to existing users .
last year , egg launched an insurance service for cars , homes and contents , and a supermarket for investors which includes a full online share trading capability , and the egg-boots card .
a mortgage supermarket is to be launched imminently .
increased competition egg is banking on its " first mover advantage " to carry it through a new wave of competition from established banks that now offer online banking such as co-op 's smile , abbey national 's cahoot and halifax 's intelligent finance .
being a " first mover " has been touted as a vital ingredient for success in the dot.com world , on the assumption that by being first , companies can secure a healthy chunk of the market share .
but experience shows that this is not always the case .
pure online shops , for example , are beginning to lose market share to traditional brands that have entered the internet market much later on .
the tie-up with uk chemist boots is a step towards using an existing brand name as an on-the-ground channel for internet ventures .
but paul gratton denies that this is a growing trend for egg , and is confident that " the online market is set to explode " .
egg floated on 12 june 2000 .
parent bank prudential still holds 79 % of the share capital .
its share price stood unchanged at 133p at 1000 gmt .
search bbc news online advanced search options bbc radio news bbc one tv news world news summary bbc news 24 bulletin programmes guide see also : 12 oct 00 -pipe- business barclays plans shopping portal 02 oct 00 -pipe- business consumers shy away from e-banking 02 oct 00 -pipe- business halifax 's web banking trouble 21 aug 00 -pipe- business online banking gets poll boost 03 aug 00 -pipe- business egg to create 1,500 jobs 26 jul 00 -pipe- business egg shares slip on loss 26 may 00 -pipe- business online banks scramble for customers 16 oct 00 -pipe- business egg adds customers and losses internet links : egg the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top business stories now : worldcom chiefs refuse to testify buoyant ebay snaps up bills firm digital tv woes hit pace profits bush vows action after scandals merck ' exaggerated ' revenue in accounts congress pushes accounting reform oil trade thaws us-russian ties hiv : the drug firms ' quest for a cure links to more business stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more business stories in this section worldcom chiefs refuse to testify buoyant ebay snaps up bills firm digital tv woes hit pace profits bush vows action after scandals merck ' exaggerated ' revenue in accounts congress pushes accounting reform oil trade thaws us-russian ties hiv : the drug firms ' quest for a cure uk business failures on the rise channel 4 boss warns of cuts babcock rescue talks fail standards officers to grill food industry israel ' okays el al sale ' irish snacks group shelves listing plans stock market funds under scrutiny car accelerates anti-corruption drive nepal boosts security spending bank of china to raise $ 3bn in share sale iraq and india ties warmed by oil deals zambia pleads for more donations kingfisher seals takeover of diy giant mobile phone giant denies pension risk bulmer 's profits fall flat scots business profits weaken wireless internet arrives in china profile : worldcom 's john sidgmore wales leads uk bust firms league chicago steals a lead on silicon valley profits plunge at alcoa uk factory gate prices flat cost cuts boost uk banks and insurers ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
