bbc news -pipe- africa -pipe- burundi wins $ 700m aid pledge categories tv radio communicate where i live index search you are in : world : africa front page world africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia - from our own correspondent - letter from america uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo services daily e-mail news ticker mobiles / pdas feedback help low graphics saturday , 8 december , 2001 , 05:17 gmt burundi wins $ 700m aid pledge buyoya is working ' day and night ' for a ceasefire by emma jane kirby in geneva burundi has been given more than $ 700m of aid by international donors to help it recover from years of civil unrest .
the money was awarded to the central african state following a two day meeting in geneva with western countries and financial institutions .
afghanistan is an international preoccupation and there is concern that africa may be forgotten .
there was no evidence of that at the meeting , but it is a fear we all share president pierre buyoya the $ 764m worth of aid awarded to burundi is to help the country implement its restructuring plans following eight years of civil war which has left at least 200,000 people dead and displaced 800,000 more .
president buyoya , who heads the transitional government in burundi , said he was working day and night towards a ceasefire and felt confident that in the coming months , a solution would be found .
thousands of burundians are destitute because of war civil war broke out in 1993 after soldiers from the minority tutsi dominated army killed the first democratically elected hutu president .
hutu rebels continue to reject a ceasefire and have intensified their attacks since the new government was installed on 1 november .
president buyoya said much of the money - $ 190m of which has come from the european union - would be used in the country 's fight against aids .
more than 11.3 % of the adult population is now infected with the hiv virus , which the president said had decimated the population and led to aids patients monopolising all hospital beds .
burundi has a national debt of more than $ 1bn .
last year debt repayment ate up 90 % of its export revenues .
see also : 26 nov 01 -pipe- africa burundi 's big push against rebels 24 nov 01 -pipe- africa eu promises massive aid for burundi 09 nov 01 -pipe- africa analysis : burundi 's shattered hopes 02 nov 01 -pipe- africa calm in bujumbura greets new era 28 oct 01 -pipe- africa peacekeepers arrive in burundi 01 nov 01 -pipe- country profiles country profile : burundi internet links : irin - burundi the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites top africa stories now : huge challenge for african union kenya hit by malaria epidemic new hope for aids vaccine winnie mandela faces fraud trial ratsiraka moots madagascar return nigerian woman fights stoning opposition attacks ivory coast poll african union replaces dictators ' club links to more africa stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more africa stories in this section huge challenge for african union kenya hit by malaria epidemic new hope for aids vaccine winnie mandela faces fraud trial ratsiraka moots madagascar return nigerian woman fights stoning opposition attacks ivory coast poll african union replaces dictators ' club winnie : from ' mother ' to ' mugger ' sierra leone trc to begin work carlos alberto new zamalek coach geremi apologises to cameroon selection change welcomed car accelerates anti-corruption drive zambia pleads for more donations workers redundant at jensen plant rebels face life without a cause car leader praises crash pilot bombs shatter algerian celebrations oromo rebels deny ethiopian ' victory ' madagascar 's chance for change ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- africa -pipe- burundi wins $ 700m aid pledge high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- bbc news online : world : africa saturday , 8 december , 2001 , 05:17 gmt burundi wins $ 700m aid pledge buyoya is working ' day and night ' for a ceasefire by emma jane kirby in geneva burundi has been given more than $ 700m of aid by international donors to help it recover from years of civil unrest .
the money was awarded to the central african state following a two day meeting in geneva with western countries and financial institutions .
afghanistan is an international preoccupation and there is concern that africa may be forgotten .
there was no evidence of that at the meeting , but it is a fear we all share president pierre buyoya the $ 764m worth of aid awarded to burundi is to help the country implement its restructuring plans following eight years of civil war which has left at least 200,000 people dead and displaced 800,000 more .
president buyoya , who heads the transitional government in burundi , said he was working day and night towards a ceasefire and felt confident that in the coming months , a solution would be found .
civil war broke out in 1993 after soldiers from the minority tutsi dominated army killed the first democratically elected hutu president .
hutu rebels continue to reject a ceasefire and have intensified their attacks since the new government was installed on 1 november .
president buyoya said much of the money - $ 190m of which has come from the european union - would be used in the country 's fight against aids .
more than 11.3 % of the adult population is now infected with the hiv virus , which the president said had decimated the population and led to aids patients monopolising all hospital beds .
burundi has a national debt of more than $ 1bn .
last year debt repayment ate up 90 % of its export revenues .
related to this story : burundi 's big push against rebels -lrb- 26 nov 01 -pipe- africa -rrb- eu promises massive aid for burundi -lrb- 24 nov 01 -pipe- africa -rrb- analysis : burundi 's shattered hopes -lrb- 09 nov 01 -pipe- africa -rrb- calm in bujumbura greets new era -lrb- 02 nov 01 -pipe- africa -rrb- peacekeepers arrive in burundi -lrb- 28 oct 01 -pipe- africa -rrb- country profile : burundi -lrb- 01 nov 01 -pipe- country profiles -rrb- internet links : irin - burundi -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- the challenge of afghan peacekeeping high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- bbc news online : world : south asia saturday , 8 december , 2001 , 05:56 gmt the challenge of afghan peacekeeping the us wants its troops to concentrate on fighting by the bbc 's mike donkin in new york the deadline is tight if a planned multi-national peacekeeping force is to be up and running in kabul when the new afghan interim administration takes office there on 22 december .
and much has still to be resolved about how it will be made up and who will lead it .
there is little doubt that the mandate will have to be renewed more than once the united nations wants at least part of the force to be in place from day one because , secretary general kofi annan says , this is the " best guarantee " of a peaceful transition in the wake of the west 's war against terror .
the un security council has already agreed the broad tasks the force will be asked to carry out .
it will be asked first to secure the capital , then spread out from there to afghanistan 's other main cities .
then the idea is for the troops to assist aid organisations bring relief to the people and start the far longer job of reconstructing the shattered country .
leadership question however , the troops on the ground - several thousand , it is estimated - will not be wearing blue un helmets .
they will come from the so-called " coalition of the willing " who have offered units .
nations fully signed up are britain , germany , canada and bangladesh , although others like france , turkey and jordan look like joining in .
talks are already under way to decide who will lead the force .
then that nation will work out exactly how to establish order from the afghan chaos .
britain is reckoned to be best placed both because of its military commitment to the region and the fact that when the international units arrive , american troops will still be on the ground carrying out more hostile operations against the remnants of al-qaeda .
the us and british governments have worked hand in glove since 11 september .
renewable mandate the international force will only be sent for six months initially .
the un is keen that the assorted afghan factions brought together to fight the war against the taleban should be kept together to ensure peace , and so does not want to endorse an open-ended stay .
there is little doubt , however , that the mandate will have to be renewed more than once .
afghanistan 's victorious northern alliance has said it could perfectly well pick up the reins of power without any outside troops to guarantee stability .
the alliance 's un ambassador , ravan farhadi , points to the way anti-taleban factions have held firm in the past weeks of fighting .
he is also , however , a realist .
" we did not request this force but we will co-operate with it fully , " he says .
dangers mr farhadi belives that kabul will be relatively easy to secure .
he admits to more doubts over the future stability of cities like kandahar , where there has been much wider support for the taleban , and over the vital and vulnerable highways which wind their way through more remote areas .
the west 's military campaign may have been carried through at a heady pace , but everyone who knows afghanistan well would counsel against that leading to any surge of confidence about the next stage .
the job the international force faces will be complex and dangerous .
what the afghan people need is lasting stability .
good intentions and a few thousand peacekeepers may not be enough to ensure this .
too many weapons have been held for too long , in too many hands .
related to this story : bringing stability to afghanistan -lrb- 16 nov 01 -pipe- south asia -rrb- what role will british troops play ? -lrb- 14 nov 01 -pipe- uk -rrb- analysis : turkey 's pivotal position -lrb- 18 oct 01 -pipe- europe -rrb- alliance opposes multi-national force -lrb- 28 nov 01 -pipe- south asia -rrb- indonesian troops set for afghanistan -lrb- 27 nov 01 -pipe- asia-pacific -rrb- internet links : afghanistan online -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
