whose side are you on ? -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 09.03.2002 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages dw-world.de deutsche welle about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search dw-world : extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.12.2009 home news world germany europe business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany map weather german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture & lifestyle -pipe- 09.03.2002 whose side are you on ? großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stellan skarsgard plays the brilliant , conflicted wilhelm furtwaengler the controversial wilhelm furtwängler , the role of art and artists under hitler and the relationship of art and politics - istván szabó takes the bull by the horns in his latest film , " taking sides " . none would deny that wilhelm furtwängler was one of the greatest german conductors of the 20th century .
director of the berlin philharmonic orchestra and the berlin state opera , furtängler had superb control of his orchestra and sweeping rhythms and was globally recognised as a virtuoso .
he was the best musician there was at the time .
and also the most controversial .
having stayed on in germany unlike most of his contemporaries after the national socialists came to power in 1933 , he often played for hitler and his entourage during the dark years of the nazi era .
but furtwängler was something of an enigma - he never became a member of the national socialist party -lrb- nsdap -rrb- , and even intervened successfully in a number of cases on behalf of artists , including jews , who were out of favour with the regime .
the burning question still remains whether furtwängler was used by the nazis as a showpiece for their own propaganda purposes or whether he played along and let himself be used to his own end .
guilty or not guilty ?
after the second world war , furtwängler faced an allied " denazification " tribunal which attempted to establish his exact role as an acclaimed musician in the third reich .
that 's the plot of hungarian director istván szabó intense political drama , " taking sides " or the " der fall furtwängler " based on a 1996 broadway play by british author ronald harwood .
the film revolves around the unequal verbal duel between two men - the scintillating artist , aesthete and man of high culture furtwängler played by swedish actor stellan skarsgard and the straightforward and blunt american major steve arnold played by harvey keitel . the major , who merely refers to the famed conductor as " bandleader " is out to nail furtwängler and prove his guilt and covert " collaboration " with the nazi regime .
complex nuances the inarticulate major does n't just come from the nation of the victorious , he also belongs to a society where mickey mouse is more important than beethoven .
but after all it is n't the people from the land of walt disney and hollywood , but those from the country of " poets and thinkers " that shocked the world with auschwitz .
the simplistic american major is outraged by the horrific scale of the crime , the much more complicated and sensitive conductor still has n't grasped this dimension of it .
the brilliant dialogues are based to a large extent on actual statements made by furtwängler .
the film quivers with tension as furtwängler sticks to his view that art and politics have nothing to do with each other while the american major relentlessly argues and cajoles and pushes furtwängler into a corner .
actor skarsgard shows subtly how the great artist gradually begins to develop guilt feelings despite his professed distance to the nazis .
szabó hailed as genius director szabó has been widely hailed for his masterly interrogation scenes . critics have called it a " masterstroke " and denoted szabó as " a specialist in the discriminating presentation of two-faced characters who are mired in political happenings " , referring to his " mephisto " for which he won the oscar in 1981 .
istván szabó has made the film from a personal perspective .
" i live in hungary , just as my parents and grandparents did .
our life was always determined and destroyed by politics and politicians .
the questions that author ronald harwood asks are also my questions : how does one live under the pressure of authoritarian regimes ?
how does one survive ?
those are general questions that all people should ask , it 's not much different today than it was 50 years ago " , he was reported as saying .
the intensity of szabò 's film is strengthened by mention of the actual historical continuation of events after the interrogation : furtwängler could never again work in the united states , though he was considered rehabilitated in europe and took over the direction of the berlin symphony orchestra and the salzburg festival . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic www-links externer link : taking sides official site of the film picture of the day dw-tv europe live arts.21 - the cultural magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live audio : in-box audio : feedback from around the world audio : listen live culture germany 's industrial ruhr region is gearing up to be a european capital of culture in 2010 .
video : watch the video externer link , ã ƒ â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : more on the web picture gallery germany 's andy warhol artist peter roehr was a master of repetition and a minimalist pioneer .
music beethoven competition deutsche welle presents finalists ' performances from the international beethoven competition .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
bilder : word of the week photography magnum photo agency has opened a compelling exhibition in paris .
video : watch the video travel discover germany through the eyes of other tourists .
video : my tegernsee video : my schlei video : my goerlitz video : my fulda video : my bayreuth video : my regensburg video : my passau video : my stuttgart weblog outsiders ' insights our student bloggers share their latest adventures in germany .
radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
externer link , ã ƒ â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : hits in germany externer link , ã ƒ â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : concert hour externer link , ã ƒ â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : music this week externer link , ã ƒ â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : arts on the air externer link , ã ƒ â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : inspired minds externer link , ã ƒ â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : living in germany externer link , ã ƒ â ¶ ffnet in neuem fenster : cool - dw for youth news quiz win a prize review recent news stories for a chance to win a prize . © dw 2009 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kent police freedom of information disclosure page 1 operation oasis seized property list.xls operation oasis - seized property list description of property 13 x ' 200 ' litre barrels 12 x ' 18.5 ' litre water containers 1 ' 19 ' litre water bottle 4 x water bottles of various sizes 10 x inflatable dinghys 33 x car tyres numerous large / small / bike inner tubes plastic bag containing tyre valves adhesives & patches 2 x ' 3ft ' plastic tubes 5 x high output air pumps 1 foot pump 2 x airpumps 1 sail 4 x inflatable cushions 8 x inflatable canoes inflatable matress 30 x canoe paddles , incl double / single / t-bar types of bladed paddles 13 x wooden ' homemade ' paddles 46 x lifejackets harnesses 4 x wet suits - -lrb- 1 returned -rrb- dry wader boots 2 x llife belts various wooden pallets nailed together forming 5 raft bases
