bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- asian meet aims to strengthen trade high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- bbc news online : world : south asia thursday , 7 february , 2002 , 05:30 gmt asian meet aims to strengthen trade trade experts from four asian countries are meeting in the bangladeshi capital , dhaka , to explore the possibility of forming a new economic block in the region .
the experts , from bangladesh , china , india and burma , will be discussing ways of developing the necessary infrastructure to strengthen trade links between them .
officials at the conference say bangladesh and china are committed to such an initiative but say the authorities in india and burma remain protectionist in the field of international trade .
the conference organisers say one of their main objectives is to revive the route following the ancient trading link between asian countries and europe known as the silk road .
from the newsroom of the bbc world service high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
bbc news -pipe- south asia -pipe- asian meet aims to strengthen trade categories tv radio communicate where i live index search you are in : world : south asia front page world africa americas asia-pacific europe middle east south asia - from our own correspondent - letter from america uk uk politics business sci / tech health education entertainment talking point in depth audiovideo services daily e-mail news ticker mobiles / pdas feedback help low graphics thursday , 7 february , 2002 , 05:30 gmt asian meet aims to strengthen trade trade experts from four asian countries are meeting in the bangladeshi capital , dhaka , to explore the possibility of forming a new economic block in the region .
the experts , from bangladesh , china , india and burma , will be discussing ways of developing the necessary infrastructure to strengthen trade links between them .
officials at the conference say bangladesh and china are committed to such an initiative but say the authorities in india and burma remain protectionist in the field of international trade .
the conference organisers say one of their main objectives is to revive the route following the ancient trading link between asian countries and europe known as the silk road .
from the newsroom of the bbc world service top south asia stories now : karachi bomb suspects arrested pentagon team to examine bomb error bangladesh floods maroon thousands sri lanka truce violations recorded al-qaeda ' may have killed minister ' regional media views afghan killing more arrests in pakistan gang rape england crash to defeat links to more south asia stories are at the foot of the page .
e-mail this story to a friend links to more south asia stories in this section karachi bomb suspects arrested pentagon team to examine bomb error bangladesh floods maroon thousands sri lanka truce violations recorded al-qaeda ' may have killed minister ' regional media views afghan killing more arrests in pakistan gang rape england crash to defeat tigers call up cubs imran supports mandela plan indian airlines start price war iraq and india ties warmed by oil deals obituary : dh ambani nepal boosts security spending pakistan cleric 's ' death order ' india angry over locust invasion india unveils world 's largest padlock hindi soap set to storm us britain ' sheltering al-qaeda leader ' 150 rescued in red sea indian parties reject criminal declaration ^ ^ back to top news front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- in depth -pipe- audiovideo - to bbc sport > > -pipe- to bbc weather > > - © mmiii -pipe- news sources -pipe- privacy
<p>
bbc news -pipe- americas -pipe- cia missile ' hits al-qaeda leaders ' high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- bbc news online : world : americas thursday , 7 february , 2002 , 05:40 gmt cia missile ' hits al-qaeda leaders ' the us is scouring afghanistan for al-qaeda a missile fired from a pilotless cia plane is reported to have hit a group of senior al-qaeda members in afghanistan , killing at least one of them .
a us official told reuters news agency that a cia predator drone had fired a hellfire anti-tank missile by remote control into a group of al-qaeda members on monday night .
" at least one was killed and possibly others .
it is not clear who the individual was , " the official , who declined to be named , said .
but a senior europe-based us security official says al-qaeda leader osama bin laden and hundreds of his supporters appear to have escaped from afghanistan .
frank spicka , the head of interpol 's terrorism division , told the london-based financial times that the trail on the al-qaeda leadership had " gone fairly cold " .
news of the missile strike came after cia director george tenet warned that al-qaeda was planning more attacks against the united states and its allies .
he said the group remained the most serious and immediate threat facing america .
al-qaeda leaders still at large are working to reconstitute the organisation and resume its terrorist operations cia director george tenet the person reported to have been killed by the missile strike was said to be tall , leading to some speculation that it may have been bin laden himself , who is about 6ft 4in tall .
but another us official said several al-qaeda leaders were tall , including ayman al-zawahri , bin laden 's most senior lieutenant .
american cbs news , quoting a senior pentagon source , said that several al-qaeda leaders had died when the missile hit the group near the zawar khili caves .
mr spicka 's comments suggested the hunt for al-qaeda members will have to go beyond afghanistan .
he told the ft : " there is growing evidence that many al-qaeda fighters were evacuated from afghanistan before the major military offensive and it is safe to assume that many have entrenched themselves elsewhere in the world .
" there is certainly a possibility that bin laden and others are being harboured by countries that have large areas which are not controllable . "
mr spicka was transferred to interpol 's headquarters in france from the us secret service last year .
biological weapons mr tenet told the us senate intelligence committee on wednesday that he did not know if bin laden was dead or alive but he believed that taleban leader mullah mohammad omar was alive .
he said that the us should be prepared for a " long war " , adding that al-qaeda had not been destroyed .
" al-qaeda leaders still at large are working to reconstitute the organisation and resume its terrorist operations , " he said .
mr tenet said the network might be planning attacks on the winter olympics - due to begin in salt lake city at the weekend - as well as us and allied targets around the world .
al-qaeda is likely to continue using conventional weapons - but is also trying to acquire chemical and biological weapons , he added .
mr tenet said the network was thought to be trying to build a so-called " dirty " nuclear bomb , adding that he thought some " tactical co-operation " was possible with iraqi leader saddam hussein .
the cia director would not discuss details about the whereabouts of bin laden and omar in the open session of the committee hearing .
when asked by senator pat roberts why the cia could not get close to bin laden , he suggested that an agent had , but refused to elaborate .
mr tenet went on to reinforce president george w bush 's assertion that north korea , iran and iraq were the world 's most menacing countries .
and he warned that russia and china were trying to win money and influence by exporting weapons technology to them .
related to this story : spy plane hunting bin laden -lrb- 22 nov 01 -pipe- americas -rrb- us resumes camp x-ray flights -lrb- 07 feb 02 -pipe- americas -rrb- us releases captives from ' mistaken ' raid -lrb- 06 feb 02 -pipe- south asia -rrb- ' american taleban ' to stay in jail -lrb- 06 feb 02 -pipe- americas -rrb- analysis : al-qaeda 's origins and links -lrb- 22 nov 01 -pipe- south asia -rrb- global raids target al-qaeda -lrb- 18 jan 02 -pipe- world -rrb- analysis : what next for al-qaeda ? -lrb- 27 nov 01 -pipe- south asia -rrb- analysis : al-qaeda to struggle on -lrb- 02 jan 02 -pipe- south asia -rrb- internet links : cia -pipe- us congress -pipe- the bbc is not responsible for the content of external internet sites high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- high graphics -pipe- bbc sport > > front page -pipe- world -pipe- uk -pipe- uk politics -pipe- business -pipe- sci / tech -pipe- health -pipe- education -pipe- entertainment -pipe- talking point -pipe- audiovideo -pipe- world contents : africa -pipe- americas -pipe- asia-pacific -pipe- europe -pipe- middle east -pipe- south asia -pipe- from our own correspondent -pipe- letter from america -pipe- back to top -pipe- bbc news home -pipe- bbc homepage -pipe- ©
<p>
