wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
puma loses millions in greek fraud scandal -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 26.10.2010 puma loses millions in greek fraud scandal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions of euros are missing at puma 's greek unit german sports-goods maker puma has accused its greek joint venture of financial irregularities .
cleaning up its greek business is expected to cost the group well over 100 million euros . europe 's second-biggest sporting goods maker , puma , is experiencing its very own greek financial crisis .
its two business partners in greece , brothers giorgos and antonios glou , allegedly deceived the company for years on end , withholding or misappropriating millions of euros from the group 's greek unit , puma hellas .
puma has n't published any details as to what happened exactly , but the company said it would launch civil and criminal proceedings against puma hellas ' former manager , its financial executive officer and the two glou brothers , who each owned 15 percent of the company .
" puma is the victim of systematic fraud and embezzlement , " a puma spokesperson said .
" it is suspected that the greek joint venture partner , along with members of the greek local management , committed a series of criminal acts . "
puma hellas was set up in 2005 .
puma retained a 70 percent share in the business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : puma chief jochen zeitz spoke of " irregularities " at the greek joint venture forced to write off 115 million euros puma said internal and external audits both revealed irregularities at its greek operations , but it did not explain how the glou brothers were able to steal money repeatedly without being noticed .
the affair has caused considerable damage to the company .
on monday puma announced it would write off up to 115 million euros -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- as a result of the alleged fraud .
" unfortunately , the discovery of irregularities committed by our greek joint venture partner is casting a shadow on our solid financial performance in the quarter , " said puma chief jochen zeitz .
the company released its latest results on tuesday .
third-quarter net profit climbed to 77.6 million euros after revenue rose 16.5 percent to 784.3 million euros .
puma is now forecasting sales growth in the mid-to-high single digits after previously predicting a rise in the low-to-mid single digits .
profit margins are also expected to widen , the group said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : puma sells sports goods worth millions of euros in greece damage control zeitz said the puma will not step out of the greek market , where the company generates turnover worth tens of millions of euros .
but the group has introduced measures to cope with the effects of the crisis .
it has appointed miguel andrade , its long-serving manager of french operations , as the new head of the greek unit .
a new internal control system specifically designed for puma hellas is also being tested .
puma said it has learned important lessons from the affair .
in future the group will not rely on its partners to the same extent anymore .
according to media reports , zeitz is planning to buy the remaining 30 percent of share in puma hellas .
author : nina haase -lrb- dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de luxury group recruits puma boss for sports expansion french luxury goods producer ppr , which owns gucci and yves saint laurent , bought german sports brand puma in 2007 .
now ppr wants puma 's unconventional ceo jochen zeitz to build a new sports and leisure empire .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- german national team jerseys are a hot item in a hot summer a young , captivating german soccer team competing in the world cup and a hot summer have been a huge boost for sportswear sales in germany .
the national black away jersey has sold out in much of the country .
-lrb- 09.07.2010 -rrb- china takes steps against the eu in trade row beijing has imposed a tariff on european steel products , such as nails and bolts , as a trade row with brussels escalates .
a day earlier , the eu had decided to extend a levy on the import of shoes from asia .
-lrb- 23.12.2009 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- 05 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- 05 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china party success china 's success depends on the communist party , but corruption might lead to catastrophe : hu foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live kultur.21 - das kulturmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
' night milk ' aims to help people sleep -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de food and drink -pipe- 26.10.2010 ' night milk ' aims to help people sleep großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nacht-michkristalle received a patent earlier this month a munich company has just received a patent on " night milk crystals , " which are freeze-dried milk packets from cows with elevated levels of melatonin , a sleep-related hormone . many people know the frustrations of a sleepless night .
some listen to the radio , count sheep , or drink warm milk as a way to get to sleep .
one munich company , though , has just been awarded a patent for its melatonin-infused " night milk crystals . "
earlier this month , nacht-milchkristalle received its german patent , and continues to expand around europe , most recently to austria .
its product , a thin , freeze-dried nine-gram packet , which can then be added to any milk , has a retail price of 25 euros -lrb- $ 35 -rrb- for 16 packets .
the " night milk " has been available in germany for the past six months .
company representatives say that the milk contains naturally-induced elevated levels of melatonin , a hormone that can help with sleep .
melatonin is already available as an over-the-counter additive in the united states , but is more restricted in europe .
plus , it 's also used as an additive in some american canned drinks .
the american federal drug administration even started looking into the issue earlier this year .
company says red light is good for melatonin production bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the company says that it only milks its cows at night for maximum melatonin production " the cows need much light during the day and no light during the night , " said kai oppel , a company spokesperson .
" normally there is light in the cow shed also during the night .
and that 's why there 's less melatonin in the milk and in the blood .
so we installed lights and these lights are burning the whole day , but during the night we switch the lights off and have only red light .
we need red light because it 's long wave light which is about 650 nanometres and that 's a good light for melotonin production . "
the company adds that their cows are milked at midnight , when melatonin production is the highest .
" in all sheds milk is taken all the time and the consumer gets something like a mixture of different milks , " oppel said .
" so if you drink milk from the supermarket you have milk from 1 p.m. , from 6 p.m. , from 3 p.m. , the milk is mixed .
but we only take the night milk . "
some sleep scientists stay skeptical bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a german magazine called the night milk " nothing more than a placebo " jim lorne , the head of the sleep research center at loughbourough university in the united kingdom is worried how strong of an effect melatonin can have , even if the cows themselves manage to stay awake .
" melatonin is not the substance which induces sleep , " he said .
" it 's effective for telling the organism it 's night-time and as something to regulate the body clock .
of course if you 're a nocturnal animal , a rat or a fox , they still have this surge in melatonin and it tells them to wake up .
my point here is that melatonin can help adjust your sleep but i 'm not sure how good it is for making you sleep . "
lorne certainly is n't alone - the german health magazine " gute pillen , schlechte pillen " -lrb- good pills , bad pills -rrb- recently described this night milk as " nothing more than expensive placebos , " adding that the amount of melatonin is too small to be effective .
but that may be just part of the point .
if people expect this special milk to do the trick , perhaps a placebo effect is all they need to get a good night 's sleep .
" people think of a milky drink as a comfort and something that helps you sleep , and the thought that it contains melatonin as well , might be all part of the impression that it might do you good , " lorne added .
" i 'm not saying it 's not effective , i merely say let the buyer beware .
i 'm not so sure you can expect great things from melatonin anyway and whether it 's effective in this milk is another matter . "
author : jonathan gifford , munich editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swiss dairy farmers face uncertain future dairy farmers across europe have been protesting against falling milk prices for months .
the small-scale alpine farms of switzerland are among the producers hard hit by the dairy crisis .
-lrb- 06.10.2009 -rrb- milk prices up for debate - and protest - in brussels disgruntled dairy farmers drove tractors into brussels on monday and hurled eggs at the eu headquarters .
they ’ re trying to influence the eu agriculture ministers ' meeting on the milk market and get further concessions .
-lrb- 05.10.2009 -rrb- after germany , milk protest spills into the baltics about 1,000 people spilled into riga 's dome square on friday for splashes of unpasteurized milk as farmers rallied against the eu 's decision to raise milk quotas .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' night milk ' aims to help people sleep 05 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 05 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china party success china 's success depends on the communist party , but corruption might lead to catastrophe : hu foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 05 dw-tv europe live politik direkt - das politikmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaftsbilanz we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
us-pakistan relations the new york times is reporting that the us is planning special operations in pakistan .
taliban expert ahmed rashid talks about the new york times report the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home europe eco-loans in serbia permafrost in russia boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia green industry park in india flood prevention in bangladesh hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features biomass geothermal wind power solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- 02 english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 07.07.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china party success china 's success depends on the communist party , but corruption might lead to catastrophe : hu foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
us-pakistan relations the new york times is reporting that the us is planning special operations in pakistan .
taliban expert ahmed rashid talks about the new york times report the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should private security firms be banned in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 india a doctor and rights activist has been sentenced to life imprisonment for supporting the maoists .
dw correspondent murali krishnan talks about the case of binayak sen asia compact join us on facebook !
thai emergency the thai government has lifted the state of emergency in bangkok .
dw correspondent ron corben talks about the lifting of the emergency eight months after being imposed december asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.12.10 indian rights activist sentenced to life imprisonment bhutto murder still a mystery after three years myanmar faces uncertainty in 2011 podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deforestation has slowed since th 1990s , but continues at an alarming rate saving forests is topping the agenda of a un summit on biodiversity in japan .
as the meeting enters its final days , there are growing fears that the talks could bog down amid acrimony between poor and rich countries . delegates at the un convention on biological diversity meeting in nagoya , japan , have put sustainable forestry management at the forefront of their negotiations , as these habitats are home to thousands of the world 's plant and animal species , and can also help slow global warming .
the un food and agriculture organisation -lrb- fao -rrb- estimates that the world is currently losing some 13 million hectares -lrb- 32 million acres -rrb- of forest cover per year , mostly in tropical countries .
that is down from 16 million hectares per year in the 1990s , but activists say it is still too much .
as well as hosting habitats for animals , forests help regulate climate and rainfall and also prevent soil erosion , flooding and landslides . seeing redd bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saving species is the aim of the conference , is forestry the way to get there ?
on tuesday , talks focused specifically on the un-backed scheme called redd -lrb- reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation -rrb- .
under redd , wealthier nations pledge funds to protect forests in poorer countries , which agree to forego their right to exploit these areas for timber or development .
" our forests need immediate action , " said brazil 's environment minister , izabella teizeira .
redd has attracted funding pledges from some rich nations , but at this point it is mostly known for its troubled start .
participants have bickered over how to manage the cash , as well as procedural issues .
the one-day redd focus was aimed at giving the scheme a boost prior to major climate talks in mexico in late november .
negotiations on the pact have taken years and the un says nagoya needs to agree tougher targets to save the forests , reefs , rivers and wetlands that underpin livelihoods and economies .
" we are at a very pivotal time .
we are losing biodiversity on the planet at an alarming rate that can not go on or our children and our grandchildren will be that much poorer , " canada 's environment minister jim prentice told reuters news service .
however , even supporters of the scheme are voicing concerns about its potential abuse .
this week , the group greenpeace took papua new guinea to task for its efforts to gain redd funding , saying the country was more interested in cash and " not currently ready " to be involved .
the report also cited a lack of political leadership to implement the program properly .
" there has been little international interest in png as a responsible recipient of redd funding due to high levels of corruption , ' carbon cowboy ' scandals , and a lack of political leadership on redd , " it said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many new drugs are derived from nature and genetic resources are a contentious issue slowing momentum the nagoya conference is also burdened by the failures of past pledges in 2002 , nations agreed to halt biodiversity loss by 2010 – a target which all countries have failed to achieve .
the talks , which continue through to october 29 , aim to set new targets for protecting animal and plant species by 2020 .
biologists say many species are threatened with a global extinction crisis , and delegates are trying to agree on ways to spend some $ 4 billion -lrb- 2.8 billion euros -rrb- to save forests in developing countries .
yet on tuesday , meetings seemed in danger of bogging down , the momentum sapped - as with climate talks - on acrimonious issues pitting rich countries against poor ones .
brazil , for example , has threatened to make the issue of sharing the benefits of genetic resources – such as wild plants from rainforests , prized by biotech companies for making medicines – a deal-breaker for any overarching agreement encompassing the talks ' other goals .
author : jennifer abramsohn -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- twenty-five-year conservation effort pays off on germany 's north sea coast germany 's wadden sea national park , along the north sea coast , turned 25 this month .
as the world struggles with agreements to reverse biodiversity loss , the wadden sea shines as an example of transnational conservation .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- in economic rethink , experts call for putting price tag on nature amid growing evidence of the global loss of biodiversity and ecosystems , economists are pushing businesses and governments to factor the price of ecological destruction into their decision-making .
-lrb- 28.09.2010 -rrb- germany voices reservations about ecuador 's oil fund when ecuador first mooted the idea of foregoing massive oil reserves under the yasuni national park in exchange for donations worth half its value , berlin was on board .
but now the government appears reluctant to commit .
-lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- www-links biodiversity in pictures feedback who should decide whether , and how , poor countries exploit their natural resources ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
environment listen to our weekly environment show or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 23.12.10 -rrb- development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
listen to world in progress -lrb- 22.12.10 -rrb- world in progress page climate change in-depth coverage of cancun and related environmental topics climate change global warming dw looks at angela merkel 's climate advisor joachim schellnhuber and his climate warnings .
watch the video .
health cheap , simple hygienic practices can protect millions from deadly , preventable diseases .
watch the report web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle .
weblog ice blog climate news and views - check out the ice blog of dw 's environment correspondent , irene quaile . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deforestation has slowed since th 1990s , but continues at an alarming rate saving forests is topping the agenda of a un summit on biodiversity in japan .
as the meeting enters its final days , there are growing fears that the talks could bog down amid acrimony between poor and rich countries . delegates at the un convention on biological diversity meeting in nagoya , japan , have put sustainable forestry management at the forefront of their negotiations , as these habitats are home to thousands of the world 's plant and animal species , and can also help slow global warming .
the un food and agriculture organisation -lrb- fao -rrb- estimates that the world is currently losing some 13 million hectares -lrb- 32 million acres -rrb- of forest cover per year , mostly in tropical countries .
that is down from 16 million hectares per year in the 1990s , but activists say it is still too much .
as well as hosting habitats for animals , forests help regulate climate and rainfall and also prevent soil erosion , flooding and landslides . seeing redd bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saving species is the aim of the conference , is forestry the way to get there ?
on tuesday , talks focused specifically on the un-backed scheme called redd -lrb- reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation -rrb- .
under redd , wealthier nations pledge funds to protect forests in poorer countries , which agree to forego their right to exploit these areas for timber or development .
" our forests need immediate action , " said brazil 's environment minister , izabella teizeira .
redd has attracted funding pledges from some rich nations , but at this point it is mostly known for its troubled start .
participants have bickered over how to manage the cash , as well as procedural issues .
the one-day redd focus was aimed at giving the scheme a boost prior to major climate talks in mexico in late november .
negotiations on the pact have taken years and the un says nagoya needs to agree tougher targets to save the forests , reefs , rivers and wetlands that underpin livelihoods and economies .
" we are at a very pivotal time .
we are losing biodiversity on the planet at an alarming rate that can not go on or our children and our grandchildren will be that much poorer , " canada 's environment minister jim prentice told reuters news service .
however , even supporters of the scheme are voicing concerns about its potential abuse .
this week , the group greenpeace took papua new guinea to task for its efforts to gain redd funding , saying the country was more interested in cash and " not currently ready " to be involved .
the report also cited a lack of political leadership to implement the program properly .
" there has been little international interest in png as a responsible recipient of redd funding due to high levels of corruption , ' carbon cowboy ' scandals , and a lack of political leadership on redd , " it said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many new drugs are derived from nature and genetic resources are a contentious issue slowing momentum the nagoya conference is also burdened by the failures of past pledges in 2002 , nations agreed to halt biodiversity loss by 2010 – a target which all countries have failed to achieve .
the talks , which continue through to october 29 , aim to set new targets for protecting animal and plant species by 2020 .
biologists say many species are threatened with a global extinction crisis , and delegates are trying to agree on ways to spend some $ 4 billion -lrb- 2.8 billion euros -rrb- to save forests in developing countries .
yet on tuesday , meetings seemed in danger of bogging down , the momentum sapped - as with climate talks - on acrimonious issues pitting rich countries against poor ones .
brazil , for example , has threatened to make the issue of sharing the benefits of genetic resources – such as wild plants from rainforests , prized by biotech companies for making medicines – a deal-breaker for any overarching agreement encompassing the talks ' other goals .
author : jennifer abramsohn -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- twenty-five-year conservation effort pays off on germany 's north sea coast germany 's wadden sea national park , along the north sea coast , turned 25 this month .
as the world struggles with agreements to reverse biodiversity loss , the wadden sea shines as an example of transnational conservation .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- in economic rethink , experts call for putting price tag on nature amid growing evidence of the global loss of biodiversity and ecosystems , economists are pushing businesses and governments to factor the price of ecological destruction into their decision-making .
-lrb- 28.09.2010 -rrb- germany voices reservations about ecuador 's oil fund when ecuador first mooted the idea of foregoing massive oil reserves under the yasuni national park in exchange for donations worth half its value , berlin was on board .
but now the government appears reluctant to commit .
-lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- www-links biodiversity in pictures 02 environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 30.06.11 -rrb- the living planet page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
listen to world in progress 29.06.11 world in progress page micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 02 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- 02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hungarians fear repeat of toxic industrial accident -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 hungarians fear repeat of toxic industrial accident großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : while authorities guard against further disaster in kolontar , there may be danger elsewhere hungarian environmentalists are worried that there could be a repeat of the kolontar toxic waste spill that left nine people dead .
a decrepit plant in almasfuzito is an accident waiting to happen , they say . almasfuzito is a village some 80 kilometers -lrb- 50 miles -rrb- outside the hungarian capital , budapest , and it may well be the next victim of another toxic spill . slightly jittery officials recently accompanied a group of hand-picked western journalists through a former aluminum factory next to the main road in almasfuzito .
the plant , once a source of pride in communist eastern europe , was forced to close in the 1990s amid market reforms , and more than 1,000 people lost their jobs .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the desolate factory was once a source of pride the factory left behind a decrepit reservoir filled with toxic red sludge , a by-product of aluminum production .
it resembles that of the aluminum plant in western hungary , near the village of kolontar , which caused a catastrophe when some 800,000 cubic meters of the sludge flooded towns and villages , contaminating a region of 40 square kilometers with heavy metals and other chemicals .
martian landscape sandor pirik , the director of tata 's environment protection , the private firm responsible for the complex , has admitted that there are risks .
there could be an earthquake , he told deutsche welle : " we do n't know how the reservoirs will behave in such a situation . " the workers constantly monitor the reservoir , because flooding from the nearby danube river , one of europe 's main waterways , is another potential problem , pirik said .
on several occasions in the past , the rising water of the danube had reached the dam of the reservoir , which is located almost adjacent to the river .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : those looking after the site say much of the reservoir has solidified in an effort to convince visiting reporters that there was no reason for concern , tata 's environmental director bela farkas jumped onto what looked like a red martian landscape .
locals complain of leakage " at the plant where disaster struck the sludge was liquid .
here that 's not the case , " farkas said .
" this sludge is hard , that 's why i can even jump on it .
we also have covered most of the reservoir , while the plant in ajka , near kolontar , did n't even start to do that . " but downstream in budapest , the world wildlife fund -lrb- wwf -rrb- is not convinced .
" we do n't know how stable these reservoirs are , " said director gabor figeczky .
locals in almasfuzito had already complained about leakage , he said .
figeczky also pointed out that , due to the outdated technology used to build the reservoir so close to the river , an accident could endanger drinking water supplies . " in case of a flood , the water from the danube simply flows into the reservoir , " he said , adding that in case of leakage from the reservoir , the red sludge trickles into the river .
" if this red mud is still as alkaline as it was in the case of kolontar , it will surely kill lots of the fish and lots of the wildlife in the danube , and it will also threaten the drinking water supply from the danube . "
communist legacy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : signs warn against toxic contamination at the site some worry about the risk of living near the reservoir while others , like almasfuzito mayor lukacs karansebesy , are bolstered by fond memories of the past , before the aluminum plant 's 1997 closure .
" from my childhood i grew up with the idea that this was the biggest aluminum plant in central and eastern europe , " the mayor said , looking across the hardened red sludge .
" we could not imagine that one day this would all be over .
the plant meant security for people .
like my father , i worked here .
its closure was a shock not only for me but for all the villagers of whom i am now the mayor . " little by little , the legacy of communist industrial policies is coming to light .
almasfuzito is not the only victim : the european union says it has identified several potentially hazardous chemical industry sites in the region .
villagers face an uncertain future as authorities and the international community ponder what steps to take to avoid yet another environmental disaster .
author : stefan bos , almasfuzito , hungary -lrb- db -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hungary awaits eu toxic cleanup experts as spill death toll rises hungary is awaiting the arrival of a team of eu pollution cleanup experts as the death toll from monday 's toxic spill reaches seven .
fears for the danube river have eased since the accident , with polution levels down .
-lrb- 09.10.2010 -rrb- hungary declares state of emergency over toxic spill hungary has declared a state of emergency in three counties over a toxic sludge spill that has killed at least four people and injured more than 100 others .
-lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- imf , eu suspend talks on emergency loan to hungary the imf and the eu have suspended a review of hungary 's existing credit line , saying budapest needs to do more to slash its deficit and improve fiscal conditions .
-lrb- 18.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaftsbilanz we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
rail delays hit germany as unions strike over pay dispute -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 rail delays hit germany as unions strike over pay dispute großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stoppages were expected over periods lasting two hours rail passengers in germany faced major delays on tuesday as transportation unions went on strike , calling for greater wage equality .
they say private operators pay significantly less than national operator deutsche bahn . a pay dispute led to widespread rail strikes around germany on tuesday , with workers at private firms demanding significant salary increases to match those of employees of national rail operator deutsche bahn .
rail unions transnet and gdba were asking for pay rises from six of germany 's smaller regional rail operators .
the unions said that abellio , benex , keolis , veolia , hessische landesbahn and arriva paid staff as much as 20 percent less than the national operator paid its rail workers .
" the responsibility for this escalation lies clearly with the employers , " said a statement published on transnet 's website .
" we have been made an offer that would exacerbate the pay difference even further , and it was declared , at the same time , that this was the final offer . "
' no sympathy ' bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : unions said they wanted to minimize passenger disruption germany allocates regional services to private groups by tender , in line with eu law .
almost all of the country 's tracks belong to deutsche bahn , which other firms pay to use .
deutsche bahn said that the stoppages were " unjustified and counterproductive . "
a spokesman for the independent operators said that major concessions had already been made in negotiations and that the firms " have no sympathy whatsoever for this strike . "
unions have warned that further strikes could be staged in future if a deal was not reached .
while the action was not being carried out against deutsche bahn , some of the rail operator 's staff were also expected to strike .
and although the dispute was largely focused on the regions , mainline services could also be affected if personnel refused to operate track points .
the states of north-rhine westphalia and bavaria were expected to be hardest hit .
author : darren mara , richard connor -lrb- afp , ap , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german rail operator deutsche bahn plans record investment german rail operator deutsche bahn has said it will pump over 40 billion euros -lrb- $ 51.5 billion -rrb- into operations over the next four years , which marks the largest investment in the company 's history .
-lrb- 04.07.2010 -rrb- eu confronts deutsche bahn on competition the european commission is taking legal action against the german government for failing to open up the rail transport sector to rivals of deutsche bahn .
this comes as something of an embarrassment for the rail operator .
-lrb- 26.06.2010 -rrb- deutsche bahn to buy arriva for 1.8 billion euros after weeks of negotiations , german rail company deutsche bahn is to buy britain 's arriva to improve its " strategic positioning " in europe 's liberalized transport markets .
managers see little room for growth in germany .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 - das kulturmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio nuclear energy what is evil ?
renowned british intellectual terry eagleton looks it squarely in the face .
watch the video europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- feedback is the creation of new financial reforms reason enough to alter the lisbon treaty ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- feedback is the creation of new financial reforms reason enough to alter the lisbon treaty ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- feedback is the creation of new financial reforms reason enough to alter the lisbon treaty ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- feedback would you want to buy an electric car with a 600 kilometer range ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home dossier solar power europe eco-loans in serbia permafrost in russia boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia climate change in the himalayas green industry park in india flood prevention in bangladesh hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- 9798 english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 14.07.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home europe making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america micro-hydro power plants in peru renewable energy in the caribbean cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features wind power solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 28.04.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.06.2011 home europe permafrost in russia boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia green industry park in india hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features biomass geothermal wind power solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- 9798 english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 16.06.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
puma loses millions in greek fraud scandal -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 26.10.2010 puma loses millions in greek fraud scandal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions of euros are missing at puma 's greek unit german sports-goods maker puma has accused its greek joint venture of financial irregularities .
cleaning up its greek business is expected to cost the group well over 100 million euros . europe 's second-biggest sporting goods maker , puma , is experiencing its very own greek financial crisis .
its two business partners in greece , brothers giorgos and antonios glou , allegedly deceived the company for years on end , withholding or misappropriating millions of euros from the group 's greek unit , puma hellas .
puma has n't published any details as to what happened exactly , but the company said it would launch civil and criminal proceedings against puma hellas ' former manager , its financial executive officer and the two glou brothers , who each owned 15 percent of the company .
" puma is the victim of systematic fraud and embezzlement , " a puma spokesperson said .
" it is suspected that the greek joint venture partner , along with members of the greek local management , committed a series of criminal acts . "
puma hellas was set up in 2005 .
puma retained a 70 percent share in the business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : puma chief jochen zeitz spoke of " irregularities " at the greek joint venture forced to write off 115 million euros puma said internal and external audits both revealed irregularities at its greek operations , but it did not explain how the glou brothers were able to steal money repeatedly without being noticed .
the affair has caused considerable damage to the company .
on monday puma announced it would write off up to 115 million euros -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- as a result of the alleged fraud .
" unfortunately , the discovery of irregularities committed by our greek joint venture partner is casting a shadow on our solid financial performance in the quarter , " said puma chief jochen zeitz .
the company released its latest results on tuesday .
third-quarter net profit climbed to 77.6 million euros after revenue rose 16.5 percent to 784.3 million euros .
puma is now forecasting sales growth in the mid-to-high single digits after previously predicting a rise in the low-to-mid single digits .
profit margins are also expected to widen , the group said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : puma sells sports goods worth millions of euros in greece damage control zeitz said the puma will not step out of the greek market , where the company generates turnover worth tens of millions of euros .
but the group has introduced measures to cope with the effects of the crisis .
it has appointed miguel andrade , its long-serving manager of french operations , as the new head of the greek unit .
a new internal control system specifically designed for puma hellas is also being tested .
puma said it has learned important lessons from the affair .
in future the group will not rely on its partners to the same extent anymore .
according to media reports , zeitz is planning to buy the remaining 30 percent of share in puma hellas .
author : nina haase -lrb- dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de luxury group recruits puma boss for sports expansion french luxury goods producer ppr , which owns gucci and yves saint laurent , bought german sports brand puma in 2007 .
now ppr wants puma 's unconventional ceo jochen zeitz to build a new sports and leisure empire .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- german national team jerseys are a hot item in a hot summer a young , captivating german soccer team competing in the world cup and a hot summer have been a huge boost for sportswear sales in germany .
the national black away jersey has sold out in much of the country .
-lrb- 09.07.2010 -rrb- china takes steps against the eu in trade row beijing has imposed a tariff on european steel products , such as nails and bolts , as a trade row with brussels escalates .
a day earlier , the eu had decided to extend a levy on the import of shoes from asia .
-lrb- 23.12.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1773 : catherine the great passes the edict of tolerance dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- feedback is the creation of new financial reforms reason enough to alter the lisbon treaty ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- feedback would you want to buy an electric car with a 600 kilometer range ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
battered city the extent of the damage in brisbane is slowly becoming visible .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
puma loses millions in greek fraud scandal -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 26.10.2010 puma loses millions in greek fraud scandal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions of euros are missing at puma 's greek unit german sports-goods maker puma has accused its greek joint venture of financial irregularities .
cleaning up its greek business is expected to cost the group well over 100 million euros . europe 's second-biggest sporting goods maker , puma , is experiencing its very own greek financial crisis .
its two business partners in greece , brothers giorgos and antonios glou , allegedly deceived the company for years on end , withholding or misappropriating millions of euros from the group 's greek unit , puma hellas .
puma has n't published any details as to what happened exactly , but the company said it would launch civil and criminal proceedings against puma hellas ' former manager , its financial executive officer and the two glou brothers , who each owned 15 percent of the company .
" puma is the victim of systematic fraud and embezzlement , " a puma spokesperson said .
" it is suspected that the greek joint venture partner , along with members of the greek local management , committed a series of criminal acts . "
puma hellas was set up in 2005 .
puma retained a 70 percent share in the business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : puma chief jochen zeitz spoke of " irregularities " at the greek joint venture forced to write off 115 million euros puma said internal and external audits both revealed irregularities at its greek operations , but it did not explain how the glou brothers were able to steal money repeatedly without being noticed .
the affair has caused considerable damage to the company .
on monday puma announced it would write off up to 115 million euros -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- as a result of the alleged fraud .
" unfortunately , the discovery of irregularities committed by our greek joint venture partner is casting a shadow on our solid financial performance in the quarter , " said puma chief jochen zeitz .
the company released its latest results on tuesday .
third-quarter net profit climbed to 77.6 million euros after revenue rose 16.5 percent to 784.3 million euros .
puma is now forecasting sales growth in the mid-to-high single digits after previously predicting a rise in the low-to-mid single digits .
profit margins are also expected to widen , the group said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : puma sells sports goods worth millions of euros in greece damage control zeitz said the puma will not step out of the greek market , where the company generates turnover worth tens of millions of euros .
but the group has introduced measures to cope with the effects of the crisis .
it has appointed miguel andrade , its long-serving manager of french operations , as the new head of the greek unit .
a new internal control system specifically designed for puma hellas is also being tested .
puma said it has learned important lessons from the affair .
in future the group will not rely on its partners to the same extent anymore .
according to media reports , zeitz is planning to buy the remaining 30 percent of share in puma hellas .
author : nina haase -lrb- dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de luxury group recruits puma boss for sports expansion french luxury goods producer ppr , which owns gucci and yves saint laurent , bought german sports brand puma in 2007 .
now ppr wants puma 's unconventional ceo jochen zeitz to build a new sports and leisure empire .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- german national team jerseys are a hot item in a hot summer a young , captivating german soccer team competing in the world cup and a hot summer have been a huge boost for sportswear sales in germany .
the national black away jersey has sold out in much of the country .
-lrb- 09.07.2010 -rrb- china takes steps against the eu in trade row beijing has imposed a tariff on european steel products , such as nails and bolts , as a trade row with brussels escalates .
a day earlier , the eu had decided to extend a levy on the import of shoes from asia .
-lrb- 23.12.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live stock exchange today in history 1917 : declaration of corfu dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home europe turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 23.12.10 -rrb- living planet lf 301210 © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.11.2010 home europe eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 18.11.10 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home europe energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 24.03.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- feedback would you want to buy an electric car with a 600 kilometer range ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week savings , hackers and house prices listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
tornado terror america 's south is in shock following the havoc wreaked by a series of deadly tornadoes .
watch the video focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hungarians fear repeat of toxic industrial accident -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 hungarians fear repeat of toxic industrial accident großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : while authorities guard against further disaster in kolontar , there may be danger elsewhere hungarian environmentalists are worried that there could be a repeat of the kolontar toxic waste spill that left nine people dead .
a decrepit plant in almasfuzito is an accident waiting to happen , they say . almasfuzito is a village some 80 kilometers -lrb- 50 miles -rrb- outside the hungarian capital , budapest , and it may well be the next victim of another toxic spill . slightly jittery officials recently accompanied a group of hand-picked western journalists through a former aluminum factory next to the main road in almasfuzito .
the plant , once a source of pride in communist eastern europe , was forced to close in the 1990s amid market reforms , and more than 1,000 people lost their jobs .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the desolate factory was once a source of pride the factory left behind a decrepit reservoir filled with toxic red sludge , a by-product of aluminum production .
it resembles that of the aluminum plant in western hungary , near the village of kolontar , which caused a catastrophe when some 800,000 cubic meters of the sludge flooded towns and villages , contaminating a region of 40 square kilometers with heavy metals and other chemicals .
martian landscape sandor pirik , the director of tata 's environment protection , the private firm responsible for the complex , has admitted that there are risks .
there could be an earthquake , he told deutsche welle : " we do n't know how the reservoirs will behave in such a situation . " the workers constantly monitor the reservoir , because flooding from the nearby danube river , one of europe 's main waterways , is another potential problem , pirik said .
on several occasions in the past , the rising water of the danube had reached the dam of the reservoir , which is located almost adjacent to the river .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : those looking after the site say much of the reservoir has solidified in an effort to convince visiting reporters that there was no reason for concern , tata 's environmental director bela farkas jumped onto what looked like a red martian landscape .
locals complain of leakage " at the plant where disaster struck the sludge was liquid .
here that 's not the case , " farkas said .
" this sludge is hard , that 's why i can even jump on it .
we also have covered most of the reservoir , while the plant in ajka , near kolontar , did n't even start to do that . " but downstream in budapest , the world wildlife fund -lrb- wwf -rrb- is not convinced .
" we do n't know how stable these reservoirs are , " said director gabor figeczky .
locals in almasfuzito had already complained about leakage , he said .
figeczky also pointed out that , due to the outdated technology used to build the reservoir so close to the river , an accident could endanger drinking water supplies . " in case of a flood , the water from the danube simply flows into the reservoir , " he said , adding that in case of leakage from the reservoir , the red sludge trickles into the river .
" if this red mud is still as alkaline as it was in the case of kolontar , it will surely kill lots of the fish and lots of the wildlife in the danube , and it will also threaten the drinking water supply from the danube . "
communist legacy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : signs warn against toxic contamination at the site some worry about the risk of living near the reservoir while others , like almasfuzito mayor lukacs karansebesy , are bolstered by fond memories of the past , before the aluminum plant 's 1997 closure .
" from my childhood i grew up with the idea that this was the biggest aluminum plant in central and eastern europe , " the mayor said , looking across the hardened red sludge .
" we could not imagine that one day this would all be over .
the plant meant security for people .
like my father , i worked here .
its closure was a shock not only for me but for all the villagers of whom i am now the mayor . " little by little , the legacy of communist industrial policies is coming to light .
almasfuzito is not the only victim : the european union says it has identified several potentially hazardous chemical industry sites in the region .
villagers face an uncertain future as authorities and the international community ponder what steps to take to avoid yet another environmental disaster .
author : stefan bos , almasfuzito , hungary -lrb- db -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hungary awaits eu toxic cleanup experts as spill death toll rises hungary is awaiting the arrival of a team of eu pollution cleanup experts as the death toll from monday 's toxic spill reaches seven .
fears for the danube river have eased since the accident , with polution levels down .
-lrb- 09.10.2010 -rrb- hungary declares state of emergency over toxic spill hungary has declared a state of emergency in three counties over a toxic sludge spill that has killed at least four people and injured more than 100 others .
-lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- imf , eu suspend talks on emergency loan to hungary the imf and the eu have suspended a review of hungary 's existing credit line , saying budapest needs to do more to slash its deficit and improve fiscal conditions .
-lrb- 18.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
congressional clout john boehner and his republicans have promised to make life difficult for president obama .
watch the video the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast series kades , from one of nairobi 's largest slums , plays djb in shujaaz , a weekly radio show .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
puma loses millions in greek fraud scandal -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 26.10.2010 puma loses millions in greek fraud scandal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions of euros are missing at puma 's greek unit german sports-goods maker puma has accused its greek joint venture of financial irregularities .
cleaning up its greek business is expected to cost the group well over 100 million euros . europe 's second-biggest sporting goods maker , puma , is experiencing its very own greek financial crisis .
its two business partners in greece , brothers giorgos and antonios glou , allegedly deceived the company for years on end , withholding or misappropriating millions of euros from the group 's greek unit , puma hellas .
puma has n't published any details as to what happened exactly , but the company said it would launch civil and criminal proceedings against puma hellas ' former manager , its financial executive officer and the two glou brothers , who each owned 15 percent of the company .
" puma is the victim of systematic fraud and embezzlement , " a puma spokesperson said .
" it is suspected that the greek joint venture partner , along with members of the greek local management , committed a series of criminal acts . "
puma hellas was set up in 2005 .
puma retained a 70 percent share in the business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : puma chief jochen zeitz spoke of " irregularities " at the greek joint venture forced to write off 115 million euros puma said internal and external audits both revealed irregularities at its greek operations , but it did not explain how the glou brothers were able to steal money repeatedly without being noticed .
the affair has caused considerable damage to the company .
on monday puma announced it would write off up to 115 million euros -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- as a result of the alleged fraud .
" unfortunately , the discovery of irregularities committed by our greek joint venture partner is casting a shadow on our solid financial performance in the quarter , " said puma chief jochen zeitz .
the company released its latest results on tuesday .
third-quarter net profit climbed to 77.6 million euros after revenue rose 16.5 percent to 784.3 million euros .
puma is now forecasting sales growth in the mid-to-high single digits after previously predicting a rise in the low-to-mid single digits .
profit margins are also expected to widen , the group said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : puma sells sports goods worth millions of euros in greece damage control zeitz said the puma will not step out of the greek market , where the company generates turnover worth tens of millions of euros .
but the group has introduced measures to cope with the effects of the crisis .
it has appointed miguel andrade , its long-serving manager of french operations , as the new head of the greek unit .
a new internal control system specifically designed for puma hellas is also being tested .
puma said it has learned important lessons from the affair .
in future the group will not rely on its partners to the same extent anymore .
according to media reports , zeitz is planning to buy the remaining 30 percent of share in puma hellas .
author : nina haase -lrb- dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de luxury group recruits puma boss for sports expansion french luxury goods producer ppr , which owns gucci and yves saint laurent , bought german sports brand puma in 2007 .
now ppr wants puma 's unconventional ceo jochen zeitz to build a new sports and leisure empire .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- german national team jerseys are a hot item in a hot summer a young , captivating german soccer team competing in the world cup and a hot summer have been a huge boost for sportswear sales in germany .
the national black away jersey has sold out in much of the country .
-lrb- 09.07.2010 -rrb- china takes steps against the eu in trade row beijing has imposed a tariff on european steel products , such as nails and bolts , as a trade row with brussels escalates .
a day earlier , the eu had decided to extend a levy on the import of shoes from asia .
-lrb- 23.12.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- feedback would you want to buy an electric car with a 600 kilometer range ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- feedback would you want to buy an electric car with a 600 kilometer range ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should private security firms be banned in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 reader response feedback our readers and asia compact listeners love to send in their views .
here 's a selection .
global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media militancy there have been three militant attacks on the pakistan navy in karachi in less than a week .
former law minister of pakistan , iqbal haider , admits that his country 's security establishment is double-minded about the taliban border clashes a bitter dispute over border areas flares up again between cambodia and thailand .
dw 's robert carmichael explains how asean tries to mediate between its two members listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 28.04.11 cambodia and thailand sign a ceasefire after days of border clashes militants in pakistan 's port city karachi have targetted navy again former us president carter ends his north korean tour podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile prison break about 475 prisoners , mostly taliban fighters , managed to break out of a jail in kandahar on monday .
thomas ruttig of the afghanistan analysis network believes that the afghan government is corrupt and incompetent to run its affairs april asia quiz quiz of the month justice hate crime twelve men suspected of attacking members of the ahmadiyah community face trial in indonesia .
newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 07 may asia quiz quiz of the month global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media pakistan confidence in pakistan 's civilian government and military has crumbled since bin laden 's death .
khurram abbas from the pakistan institute of legislative development and transparency on whether pakistan will see an early election human rights lives on the line nomadic herders risk their lives protesting in inner mongolia to save their way of life .
worker 's rights foreign workers see a ray of hope in a new international standard of rights for workers .
vivian chong of caram asia on what sort of discrimination the foreign domestic workers face imf leading asian economies demand a greater say in who heads the imf .
enzio von pfeil of the economic time bond fund on whether european nations should still head the imf or whether it is time for emerging asian economies to have a greater say listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 30.05.11 pakistan might see early elections india and germany to expand ties stopping the multi-billion dollar illegal wildlife trade in asia podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china party success china 's success depends on the communist party , but corruption might lead to catastrophe : hu foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
tornado terror america 's south is in shock following the havoc wreaked by a series of deadly tornadoes .
watch the video focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 thai emergency the thai government has lifted the state of emergency in bangkok .
dw correspondent ron corben talks about the lifting of the emergency eight months after being imposed asia compact join us on facebook !
interview suu kyi calls for more support from europe the burmese civil rights activist talks to dw in an exclusive interview .
december asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 23.12.10 north korea is ready for a " sacred war " china offers to help eurozone out of crisis life has n't much changed for afghan women podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 reader response feedback our readers and asia compact listeners love to send in their views .
here 's a selection .
global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media militancy there have been three militant attacks on the pakistan navy in karachi in less than a week .
former law minister of pakistan , iqbal haider , admits that his country 's security establishment is double-minded about the taliban border clashes a bitter dispute over border areas flares up again between cambodia and thailand .
dw 's robert carmichael explains how asean tries to mediate between its two members listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 28.04.11 cambodia and thailand sign a ceasefire after days of border clashes militants in pakistan 's port city karachi have targetted navy again former us president carter ends his north korean tour podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile prison break about 475 prisoners , mostly taliban fighters , managed to break out of a jail in kandahar on monday .
thomas ruttig of the afghanistan analysis network believes that the afghan government is corrupt and incompetent to run its affairs april asia quiz quiz of the month justice hate crime twelve men suspected of attacking members of the ahmadiyah community face trial in indonesia .
newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- 07 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media refugees thai immigration police released on bail pakistani refugees of the ahmadiyah muslim community .
veerawit tianchainan from the thai committee for refugees -lrb- tcr -rrb- explains why they had been detained in the immigration detention centre in bangkok korean peninsula remorse or repression ?
beijing offers financial compensation to families of the victims of the tiananmen massacre .
internet cyber attack the chinese government denies claims that a hacker in china was able to hack into google accounts .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 06.06.11 thai authorities release pakistani refugees from the immigration detention center india conducts a survey to determine how many poor live in urban areas china seeks german nuclear know-how podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile china ethnic mongolians are calling for greater respect of their rights and traditions .
gardner bovingdon , china expert from indiana university , on whether this is going to put pressure on the chinese government security singapore is hosting the tenth asia security summit also known as the shangri-la dialogue .
yeo lay hwee from the singapore institute of international affairs talks about the security challenges in the asia-pacific human rights lives on the line nomadic herders risk their lives protesting in inner mongolia to save their way of life . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china party success china 's success depends on the communist party , but corruption might lead to catastrophe : hu foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live talking germany - the german way of life we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
plucky paul the octopus meets his maker -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 26.10.2010 plucky paul the octopus meets his maker großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : paul leaves behind a mother in england paul the octopus , who found global fame during this year 's football world cup for his perfect record in predicting game outcomes , has died , his aquarium in germany said tuesday . paul the octopus , that cephalopod who stupefied the world by maintaining a perfect record in predicting games at this year 's football world cup , has died by natural causes , his aquarium in germany said tuesday .
the english-born oracle , who kept his age a guarded secret , was the object of international intrigue and at the center of a dramatic month-long series of death threats and governmental offers of protection .
paul , known by his friends as the silent type , shot to stardom after correctly predicting the outcomes of eight world cup matches , including the final , which saw spain defeat the netherlands 1-0 .
" his success made him almost a bigger story than the world cup itself ... we had all naturally grown very fond of him and he will be sorely missed , " the oberhausen sea life center said in a statement .
for the prediction , two boxes were lowered into the salty soothsayer 's tank , each containing a mussel and the flags of the opposing teams .
watched by a myriad of reporters , paul would head to one box , wrench open the lid and gobble the tasty morsel , with the box he opted for being deemed the likely winner .
rarely , if ever , has an octopus to caused such a stir merely by speaking his mind .
however , it was a testament to his character that he steadfastly maintained his honor by sticking to his predictions , particularly in the face of international condemnation .
following his correct prediction that germany would defeat england , he was slammed by the british press .
then , when he said germany would fall to spain , he was the subject of death threats by sushi-hungry germans .
the episode prompted spanish leader jose luis rodriguez zapatero to call for paul to be given bodyguards , while the country 's industry minister offered him free passage to spain to " ensure his protection . "
author : darren mara -lrb- afp , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de paul the octopus retires , but a future in spain beckons paul the octopus was an uncanny judge of germany 's world cup fortunes .
now , he can relax and retire in his aquarium in oberhausen , in northern germany .
a village in spain , however , would like to give him a new home .
-lrb- 13.07.2010 -rrb- octopuses have a well-developed brain , are attracted to colors and are ' delicious ' despite the recent fame of a certain eight-legged prognosticator , scientists have known about the advanced behavior of octopuses for centuries .
-lrb- 09.07.2010 -rrb- fry paul the oracle octopus , german fans say spain 's political leaders are worried about the safety of the oracle octopus who correctly predicted germany 's defeat to spain in the world cup semifinals , as germans demand a public roasting .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the world 's most famous octopus has lost his life -lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 - das globalisierungsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 - the cultural magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 07 dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft - das wissenschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast series kades , from one of nairobi 's largest slums , plays djb in shujaaz , a weekly radio show .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series a german musician brings change with song and crowd funding .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 07 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report euro 2012 live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's euro 2012 qualifier against austria : june 3 , 18:15 utc © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback which team is your pick to win the german cup ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home europe turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 23.12.10 -rrb- © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home europe making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america micro-hydro power plants in peru renewable energy in the caribbean cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features wind power solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 28.04.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home europe boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia green industry park in india hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features biomass geothermal wind power solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- 07 english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 02.06.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback which team is your pick to win the german cup ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 dw-tv europe live glaubenssachen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
inside europe 's quiz -pipe- inside europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
inside europe programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de dw-radio -pipe- 26.10.2010 inside europe 's quiz großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the oktoberfest marked its 200th anniversary this year .
millions converge on munich every year to down one maß after another .
but how much do you know about german beer ? the bavarians certainly love their beer .
so much so that they were the first to introduce so-called purity requirements which are known as the reinheitsgebot . water , hops and barley – that 's all it takes to make a good beer . for this month 's quiz we 'd like you to tell us in which year the bavarians came up with the idea to regulate the brewing process . you can email your answers to us at europe @ dw-world.de.
or write to us at inside europe , european desk , deutsche welle radio , bonn , germany . we have some great dw prizes to give away so do n't forget to enter . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dossier breakaway regions inside europe takes a closer look at breakaway regions across the continent .
dossier doing time in europe inside europe shows that life behind bars means more than just sitting out a jail sentence .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting dw-radio live inside europe listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga - der internationale talk we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media justice ethnic mongolians started mass demonstrations against the death of mergen .
flora sapio , professor at würzburg university 's contemporary china studies , on her views on these latest developments in china refugees thai immigration police released on bail pakistani refugees of the ahmadiyah muslim community .
veerawit tianchainan from the thai committee for refugees -lrb- tcr -rrb- explains why they had been detained in the immigration detention centre in bangkok listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 08.06.11 tough sentences for chinese coal miners as ethnic mongolians call for justice islamabad ’ s red mosque preacher sets out new schools thailand ’ s opposition red shirts build network as the country prepares for july election podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile internet cyber attack the chinese government denies claims that a hacker in china was able to hack into google accounts .
security concerns the sipri yearbook 2011 highlights growing security concerns linked to natural resources .
listen to the interview beijing remorse or repression ?
beijing offers financial compensation to families of the victims of the tiananmen massacre . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china uncertain future china 's success depends on the communist party , but corruption might lead to catastrophe : hu foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
economics as the euro faces insecurity , the swiss franc is growing stronger - but not all swiss are happy .
watch the video soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a former street child in indonesia gives back to kids in need .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live drive it ! - the motor magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series a german musician brings change with song and crowd funding .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live tomorrow today - the science magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deforestation has slowed since th 1990s , but continues at an alarming rate saving forests is topping the agenda of a un summit on biodiversity in japan .
as the meeting enters its final days , there are growing fears that the talks could bog down amid acrimony between poor and rich countries . delegates at the un convention on biological diversity meeting in nagoya , japan , have put sustainable forestry management at the forefront of their negotiations , as these habitats are home to thousands of the world 's plant and animal species , and can also help slow global warming .
the un food and agriculture organisation -lrb- fao -rrb- estimates that the world is currently losing some 13 million hectares -lrb- 32 million acres -rrb- of forest cover per year , mostly in tropical countries .
that is down from 16 million hectares per year in the 1990s , but activists say it is still too much .
as well as hosting habitats for animals , forests help regulate climate and rainfall and also prevent soil erosion , flooding and landslides . seeing redd bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saving species is the aim of the conference , is forestry the way to get there ?
on tuesday , talks focused specifically on the un-backed scheme called redd -lrb- reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation -rrb- .
under redd , wealthier nations pledge funds to protect forests in poorer countries , which agree to forego their right to exploit these areas for timber or development .
" our forests need immediate action , " said brazil 's environment minister , izabella teizeira .
redd has attracted funding pledges from some rich nations , but at this point it is mostly known for its troubled start .
participants have bickered over how to manage the cash , as well as procedural issues .
the one-day redd focus was aimed at giving the scheme a boost prior to major climate talks in mexico in late november .
negotiations on the pact have taken years and the un says nagoya needs to agree tougher targets to save the forests , reefs , rivers and wetlands that underpin livelihoods and economies .
" we are at a very pivotal time .
we are losing biodiversity on the planet at an alarming rate that can not go on or our children and our grandchildren will be that much poorer , " canada 's environment minister jim prentice told reuters news service .
however , even supporters of the scheme are voicing concerns about its potential abuse .
this week , the group greenpeace took papua new guinea to task for its efforts to gain redd funding , saying the country was more interested in cash and " not currently ready " to be involved .
the report also cited a lack of political leadership to implement the program properly .
" there has been little international interest in png as a responsible recipient of redd funding due to high levels of corruption , ' carbon cowboy ' scandals , and a lack of political leadership on redd , " it said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many new drugs are derived from nature and genetic resources are a contentious issue slowing momentum the nagoya conference is also burdened by the failures of past pledges in 2002 , nations agreed to halt biodiversity loss by 2010 – a target which all countries have failed to achieve .
the talks , which continue through to october 29 , aim to set new targets for protecting animal and plant species by 2020 .
biologists say many species are threatened with a global extinction crisis , and delegates are trying to agree on ways to spend some $ 4 billion -lrb- 2.8 billion euros -rrb- to save forests in developing countries .
yet on tuesday , meetings seemed in danger of bogging down , the momentum sapped - as with climate talks - on acrimonious issues pitting rich countries against poor ones .
brazil , for example , has threatened to make the issue of sharing the benefits of genetic resources – such as wild plants from rainforests , prized by biotech companies for making medicines – a deal-breaker for any overarching agreement encompassing the talks ' other goals .
author : jennifer abramsohn -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- twenty-five-year conservation effort pays off on germany 's north sea coast germany 's wadden sea national park , along the north sea coast , turned 25 this month .
as the world struggles with agreements to reverse biodiversity loss , the wadden sea shines as an example of transnational conservation .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- in economic rethink , experts call for putting price tag on nature amid growing evidence of the global loss of biodiversity and ecosystems , economists are pushing businesses and governments to factor the price of ecological destruction into their decision-making .
-lrb- 28.09.2010 -rrb- germany voices reservations about ecuador 's oil fund when ecuador first mooted the idea of foregoing massive oil reserves under the yasuni national park in exchange for donations worth half its value , berlin was on board .
but now the government appears reluctant to commit .
-lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- www-links biodiversity in pictures 9799 environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 21.07.11 -rrb- the living planet page development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
listen to world in progress -lrb- 20.07.11 -rrb- world in progress page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
plucky paul the octopus meets his maker -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 26.10.2010 plucky paul the octopus meets his maker großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : paul leaves behind a mother in england paul the octopus , who found global fame during this year 's football world cup for his perfect record in predicting game outcomes , has died , his aquarium in germany said tuesday . paul the octopus , that cephalopod who stupefied the world by maintaining a perfect record in predicting games at this year 's football world cup , has died by natural causes , his aquarium in germany said tuesday .
the english-born oracle , who kept his age a guarded secret , was the object of international intrigue and at the center of a dramatic month-long series of death threats and governmental offers of protection .
paul , known by his friends as the silent type , shot to stardom after correctly predicting the outcomes of eight world cup matches , including the final , which saw spain defeat the netherlands 1-0 .
" his success made him almost a bigger story than the world cup itself ... we had all naturally grown very fond of him and he will be sorely missed , " the oberhausen sea life center said in a statement .
for the prediction , two boxes were lowered into the salty soothsayer 's tank , each containing a mussel and the flags of the opposing teams .
watched by a myriad of reporters , paul would head to one box , wrench open the lid and gobble the tasty morsel , with the box he opted for being deemed the likely winner .
rarely , if ever , has an octopus to caused such a stir merely by speaking his mind .
however , it was a testament to his character that he steadfastly maintained his honor by sticking to his predictions , particularly in the face of international condemnation .
following his correct prediction that germany would defeat england , he was slammed by the british press .
then , when he said germany would fall to spain , he was the subject of death threats by sushi-hungry germans .
the episode prompted spanish leader jose luis rodriguez zapatero to call for paul to be given bodyguards , while the country 's industry minister offered him free passage to spain to " ensure his protection . "
author : darren mara -lrb- afp , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de paul the octopus retires , but a future in spain beckons paul the octopus was an uncanny judge of germany 's world cup fortunes .
now , he can relax and retire in his aquarium in oberhausen , in northern germany .
a village in spain , however , would like to give him a new home .
-lrb- 13.07.2010 -rrb- octopuses have a well-developed brain , are attracted to colors and are ' delicious ' despite the recent fame of a certain eight-legged prognosticator , scientists have known about the advanced behavior of octopuses for centuries .
-lrb- 09.07.2010 -rrb- fry paul the oracle octopus , german fans say spain 's political leaders are worried about the safety of the oracle octopus who correctly predicted germany 's defeat to spain in the world cup semifinals , as germans demand a public roasting .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the world 's most famous octopus has lost his life -lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- 9799 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media singapore polls as singapore votes , not much change is likely with the people 's action party expected to win cherian george , adjunct senior research fellow at the institute of policy studies in singapore , talks about the likely outcome north korea amnesty international paints a horrifying picture of conditions in north korea 's prison camps .
ai 's asia pacific director sam zarifi says north korea 's camp system has expanded listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 06.05.11 pakistan faces international criticism singapore gears up for polls mixed emotions in us about china 's military growth podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters militancy will southeast asian extremist groups retaliate to avenge bin laden 's death ?
sidney jones from the international crisis group explains how close ties are between al qaeda and the indonesia-based jemaah islamiyah -lrb- ji -rrb- © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- 9799 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media fukushima human error a report for the iaea points to human error as the cause of japan 's worst nuclear disaster .
biodiversity saving the rare saola wwf says the establishment of a nature reserve in vietnam has brought new survival hopes for saolas .
employment indecent concentration of wealth is making life more difficult for common people .
thetis mangahas speaks on the employment situation in asia justice ethnic mongolians started mass demonstrations against the death of mergen .
flora sapio , professor at würzburg university 's contemporary china studies , on her views on these latest developments in china listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 09.06.11 the international labour organization calls for a new era of social justice thai authorities begin legal processing of refugees without detention a new debate over china ’ s founding father , mao zedong podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile internet cyber attack the chinese government denies claims that a hacker in china was able to hack into google accounts .
security concerns the sipri yearbook 2011 highlights growing security concerns linked to natural resources .
listen to the interview © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
nuclear agreement india and south korea sign a deal on nuclear cooperation to fuel india 's growth .
politics karachi violence ethnic violence in karachi has left over 40 dead and several injured .
nuclear restoring confidence the japanese government has come up with a plan to burn contaminated beef from fukushima .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
' ugly ' dancing celebrated as art form in german contest -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 26.10.2010 ' ugly ' dancing celebrated as art form in german contest großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the ugly dance worldcup celebrated off-beat moves in normal dance competitions , it 's the best dancers who receive the award but at the ugly dance world cup in hamburg , the winners were those who made the biggest impact with their unconventional moves . the music playing at the terrace hill club in hamburg is not particularly appealing .
in fact , it is rather ugly .
and this makes it a perfect match to tonight 's theme : the ugly dance world cup . four young men in their early twenties are dancing on the stage - or just moving about strangely to tacky 90s party music , depending on how you see it .
one of them is jumping around and flailing his arms , out of sync with the music .
another is holding his hands bashfully over his crotch , while yet another just stands there , pretending to play a recorder . this is not something that most would describe as an artistic performance - but according to florian schueppel , the event 's manager , it is . " ugly dance is the art of unattractive dancing , " said schueppel .
" we are not looking for bad dancers , but people who do ugly dancing artfully . " the winner is the one who gets booed the most the four young men on the stage call themselves dezentiner -lrb- decent ones -rrb- and have travelled here from a small town 150 kilometers away .
they hope to win this competition and become world champions in ugly dancing .
they put a lot of effort into their application entry , which involved uploading a video of their dance onto youtube .
it made the top ten entries . tonight , the performing act that receives the most boos from the audience wins .
to increase their chances of coming first , dezentiner have developed a special style that ranges from " dancing wildly to standing around shyly , " according to group member michael beth , alias " shy guy . " the ugly dance world cup is mostly about having fun , but schueppel says it is also about creativity and art .
" the artistic part of it is doing what the audience does n't expect , " explained schueppel .
" movements that are unknown , being out of rhythm , mixing styles - there is a lot of room for ugliness there . " bildunterschrift : the terrace hill club in hamburg was packed with fans of unconventional moves as the competitors strutted their stuff ugly aesthetics however , the concept of celebrating what is not conventionally attractive is not so new .
german philosopher karl rosenkranz described the " aesthetic of ugliness " 150 years ago , claiming that ugliness should have its place in art . this evening 's show brings rosenkranz 's theory to life .
ten teams from germany , luxembourg and switzerland are competing for the title .
at around eleven the preliminary round is in full swing .
the chucklines of norris - two young women from luxembourg - come onto the stage .
they are wearing pink leggings , strange sweatbands and oversized silk blouses .
they throw themselves repeatedly on the floor , wave their legs about , jump up again and dance out of rhythm . role models for reluctant dancers ?
the two want their " ugliness " to be taken seriously , but their act seems to make a rather cute impression .
two male groups make it into the final round : inferno ragazzi , who show a lot of skin , and the dezentiner .
the latter manage to win the audience 's approval with their signature move , " shy dance . " with the cup in their hands , the group conveys its message to the dancers of this world : " try to dance in an ugly way .
make yourselves different from the masses , just like we did . " author : manfred goetzke -lrb- ew -rrb- editor : gavin blackburn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german hip-hop at the shanghai expo at the german expo pavilion in shanghai , one could easily see how hip-hop is transcending borders .
the pavilion called the " balancity " featured hip-hop during a month long program with graffiti , break-dance and music .
-lrb- 30.08.2010 -rrb- berlin dance festival explores human rights at berlin 's international dance festival , choreographers tackled issues like the islamic veil and the failures of the international community in upholding human rights .
the result was n't necessarily comfortable .
-lrb- 03.09.2010 -rrb- germans are falling in love with tango the germans may not be famous for passionate physical expression , but many are swooning for argentinean tango .
last year , it was added to unesco 's world heritage list and for 2010 it has been named dance of the year .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic impulse dance festival -lrb- 27.11.2007 -rrb- dance science – dancing with intelligence -lrb- 18.01.2010 -rrb- arts.21 # dance theater 's revolutionary – the death of pina bausch # 05.07.2009 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
feature scorpions on tour a legendary rock band is calling it quits and dw joins them on their final tour .
recent picture galleries bayreuth and the wagner family the color master : photos by joel sternfeld summer sunglasses car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
meet story-teller and guitarist max prosa ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio bundesliga near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
green chillies at berlin asian film festival -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 26.10.2010 green chillies at berlin asian film festival großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " supermen of malegaon " highlights the importance of cinema in india the third asian hot shots festival for film and video art at berlin 's moviemento came to a close with green chillies awards going to films from india , thailand and singapore . there was a full house for the opening of berlin 's most exciting asian film festival with a typically eclectic audience of diehard fans and a large contingent of guests from singapore , this year 's special focus . " i am delighted to have the chance to meet 16 young and talented filmmakers from my country , " jacky foo , singapore ’ s ambassador to germany , told the packed cinema .
he added that although singapore ’ s movie industry had been around since the 1930s , there had been a " remarkable development " in the past 10 years . this view was corroborated by mathias ortmann , a specialist on singapore cinema who co-organized the four-day event .
" our mission as an independent film festival is to salvage singapore productions from near obscurity , " he said .
" these films are our recommendations to you as an audience . " glen goei 's blue mansion set the tone the first recommendation went down extremely well .
glen goei 's " the blue mansion " is a shakespearean drama about the intrigues triggered by the sudden death of a pineapple business tycoon and tyrannical family head . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : singapore provided the focus for this year 's festival the local police quickly start snooping around thinking a murder might well have been committed , exacerbating tension between the siblings that is already electric .
in a comic twist , the dead tycoon , in limbo as it were , is able to observe the preparations for his funeral and is thus exposed to certain unwelcome truths about his children – they can not stand him , one of them is alcoholic , another one is gay and the third has a lover … those who know singapore well will immediately get the references to the island nation ’ s politics , society , media and censorship .
this is perhaps why the film has not yet been given a commercial release in singapore , where it is rumored the authorities were none too keen on it getting more exposure . but even an international audience unversed in the intricacies of singapore 's politics can appreciate the acting , the comedy and the examination of rivalries known to all those who belong to a family . shedding light on the universal through a local lens thus , the film sheds light on universal matters through a local lens and one of the aims of the festival is indeed to bring asia to europe and point out the parallels while insisting on the specifics . tina lange , one of the festival organizers , told deutsche welle that " asian filmmakers have their own style , their own way of dealing with what ’ s going on in their countries and they also use new digital aesthetics . " she added that the festival offered young filmmakers in particular a platform , where they could show their movies and discover other asian directors , who like them had often studied in europe or the us , creating a third product that was exciting for everybody . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : 80 films were shown during the four-day festival " supermen of malegaon " one film that especially highlighted how exciting cinema can be is faiza ahmed khan 's " supermen of malegaon , " a charming documentary about a man who sets out to re-make superman -lrb- " mollywood-style " -rrb- in a small city in maharashtra , which is plagued by poverty and social strife . the movie underlines the importance of cinema in india at all levels of society and the relief it can offer in times of disenchantment .
it is also a very encouraging indication of what one can do with little money but a lot of passion . for sheikh nasir manages to make his film despite the obstacles and keeps the viewer fascinated by the process all the way . " karma calling " " karma calling " by sarba das , meanwhile , is about an indian family trying to keep its head above water in hoboken , new jersey and about indians in new delhi trying to get to america . the raj family is falling to pieces and at risk of going bankrupt .
the son dreams of becoming the next biggest hip-hop producer , the older daughter dreams of a more fulfilling job than selling " artificial plants which look real " and the youngest daughter dreams of becoming the first hindu girl to have a bat mitzvah . their parents are overwhelmed by the circumstances .
like any american household , they are hounded by phone calls – the least welcome are from the creditors .
those making the calls are thousands of miles away , perfecting their accents and their knowledge of american geography . once again , the themes are universal – the protagonists are dissatisfied with their jobs , they can not afford the rent , they live in overcrowded conditions .
they all yearn for something more from life . and with some help from the gods , ganesha to be precise , their problems are " miraculously " solved , giving a happy hollywood ending to this amusing drama .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : india is perhaps the most film-loving nation in the world " made in pakistan " but not all the films at the festival are funny .
" made in pakistan , " a documentary by nasir khan , gives an insider view of the supposedly " most dangerous country in the world " .
the director follows the lives of four pakistanis – a very successful pr and events manager , the editor of a cultural magazine , a lawyer and a politician over a short period in 2007 . it is a film that contrasts deeply with the snippets of information about pakistan that are often to be found in the western media and brings this misinterpreted nation to life . the film was shot in 2007 , ending with benazir bhutto 's assassination in december that shocked the protagonists but did not unsettle their faith in their country 's future . " mother is a whore " lee sang-woo ’ s " mother is a whore " is an extremely disturbing film ostensibly about an aging prostitute whose pimp is her own son .
the viewer is at first repelled by the circumstances but soon realizes that the son does not do his job voluntarily . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a still from the disturbing south korean drama " mother is a whore " his tender attitude towards his mother is touching and it turns out she is not his victim at all – indeed she apparently likes her job as it allows her rare moments of affection .
in a parallel plot , the son 's estranged father is revealed to be a brutal rapist of young boys . the south korean director does not spell anything out , however .
instead , he challenges his viewers to question any moral certainties they think they might have .
it is not a film that leaves the viewer unscathed . the mark of a good film festival is that the selection raises thought and debate .
of 80 exciting productions from all over asia , eight competed for the green chillies award .
" green because they are not quite ripe but still they are hot and asian , " lange put it with a smile . in the end , the audience chose " agrarian utopia " by thai director uruphong raksasad and " white days " by lei yuan bin from singapore . next year 's festival will also take place at moviemento but as yet it is unclear which country will provide the focus . author : anne thomas editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de asia at the berlinale at the 60th berlin film festival , asia ’ s movie industry has once again shown itself to be of very high quality .
anne thomas has spent the week scurrying from one packed theater to the next .
-lrb- 19.02.2010 -rrb- bollywood superstar shah rukh khan at the berlinale at the weekend , one of the most eagerly awaited asian stars stopped in berlin : bollywood hero shah rukh khan .
-lrb- 15.02.2010 -rrb- www-links asian hot shots festival feedback what 's your favorite film ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . us japan drills us-japanese military drills have begun in the sea of japan as the region seethes with conflict .
eberhard sandschneider of the german council on foreign relations explains the significance of the exercise listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 03.12.10 gigantic us-japanese military maneuver kicks off taiwan 's ex-president begins 19-year sentence pakistan still reeling from floods podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
green chillies at berlin asian film festival -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 26.10.2010 green chillies at berlin asian film festival großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " supermen of malegaon " highlights the importance of cinema in india the third asian hot shots festival for film and video art at berlin 's moviemento came to a close with green chillies awards going to films from india , thailand and singapore . there was a full house for the opening of berlin 's most exciting asian film festival with a typically eclectic audience of diehard fans and a large contingent of guests from singapore , this year 's special focus . " i am delighted to have the chance to meet 16 young and talented filmmakers from my country , " jacky foo , singapore ’ s ambassador to germany , told the packed cinema .
he added that although singapore ’ s movie industry had been around since the 1930s , there had been a " remarkable development " in the past 10 years . this view was corroborated by mathias ortmann , a specialist on singapore cinema who co-organized the four-day event .
" our mission as an independent film festival is to salvage singapore productions from near obscurity , " he said .
" these films are our recommendations to you as an audience . " glen goei 's blue mansion set the tone the first recommendation went down extremely well .
glen goei 's " the blue mansion " is a shakespearean drama about the intrigues triggered by the sudden death of a pineapple business tycoon and tyrannical family head . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : singapore provided the focus for this year 's festival the local police quickly start snooping around thinking a murder might well have been committed , exacerbating tension between the siblings that is already electric .
in a comic twist , the dead tycoon , in limbo as it were , is able to observe the preparations for his funeral and is thus exposed to certain unwelcome truths about his children – they can not stand him , one of them is alcoholic , another one is gay and the third has a lover … those who know singapore well will immediately get the references to the island nation ’ s politics , society , media and censorship .
this is perhaps why the film has not yet been given a commercial release in singapore , where it is rumored the authorities were none too keen on it getting more exposure . but even an international audience unversed in the intricacies of singapore 's politics can appreciate the acting , the comedy and the examination of rivalries known to all those who belong to a family . shedding light on the universal through a local lens thus , the film sheds light on universal matters through a local lens and one of the aims of the festival is indeed to bring asia to europe and point out the parallels while insisting on the specifics . tina lange , one of the festival organizers , told deutsche welle that " asian filmmakers have their own style , their own way of dealing with what ’ s going on in their countries and they also use new digital aesthetics . " she added that the festival offered young filmmakers in particular a platform , where they could show their movies and discover other asian directors , who like them had often studied in europe or the us , creating a third product that was exciting for everybody . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : 80 films were shown during the four-day festival " supermen of malegaon " one film that especially highlighted how exciting cinema can be is faiza ahmed khan 's " supermen of malegaon , " a charming documentary about a man who sets out to re-make superman -lrb- " mollywood-style " -rrb- in a small city in maharashtra , which is plagued by poverty and social strife . the movie underlines the importance of cinema in india at all levels of society and the relief it can offer in times of disenchantment .
it is also a very encouraging indication of what one can do with little money but a lot of passion . for sheikh nasir manages to make his film despite the obstacles and keeps the viewer fascinated by the process all the way . " karma calling " " karma calling " by sarba das , meanwhile , is about an indian family trying to keep its head above water in hoboken , new jersey and about indians in new delhi trying to get to america . the raj family is falling to pieces and at risk of going bankrupt .
the son dreams of becoming the next biggest hip-hop producer , the older daughter dreams of a more fulfilling job than selling " artificial plants which look real " and the youngest daughter dreams of becoming the first hindu girl to have a bat mitzvah . their parents are overwhelmed by the circumstances .
like any american household , they are hounded by phone calls – the least welcome are from the creditors .
those making the calls are thousands of miles away , perfecting their accents and their knowledge of american geography . once again , the themes are universal – the protagonists are dissatisfied with their jobs , they can not afford the rent , they live in overcrowded conditions .
they all yearn for something more from life . and with some help from the gods , ganesha to be precise , their problems are " miraculously " solved , giving a happy hollywood ending to this amusing drama .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : india is perhaps the most film-loving nation in the world " made in pakistan " but not all the films at the festival are funny .
" made in pakistan , " a documentary by nasir khan , gives an insider view of the supposedly " most dangerous country in the world " .
the director follows the lives of four pakistanis – a very successful pr and events manager , the editor of a cultural magazine , a lawyer and a politician over a short period in 2007 . it is a film that contrasts deeply with the snippets of information about pakistan that are often to be found in the western media and brings this misinterpreted nation to life . the film was shot in 2007 , ending with benazir bhutto 's assassination in december that shocked the protagonists but did not unsettle their faith in their country 's future . " mother is a whore " lee sang-woo ’ s " mother is a whore " is an extremely disturbing film ostensibly about an aging prostitute whose pimp is her own son .
the viewer is at first repelled by the circumstances but soon realizes that the son does not do his job voluntarily . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a still from the disturbing south korean drama " mother is a whore " his tender attitude towards his mother is touching and it turns out she is not his victim at all – indeed she apparently likes her job as it allows her rare moments of affection .
in a parallel plot , the son 's estranged father is revealed to be a brutal rapist of young boys . the south korean director does not spell anything out , however .
instead , he challenges his viewers to question any moral certainties they think they might have .
it is not a film that leaves the viewer unscathed . the mark of a good film festival is that the selection raises thought and debate .
of 80 exciting productions from all over asia , eight competed for the green chillies award .
" green because they are not quite ripe but still they are hot and asian , " lange put it with a smile . in the end , the audience chose " agrarian utopia " by thai director uruphong raksasad and " white days " by lei yuan bin from singapore . next year 's festival will also take place at moviemento but as yet it is unclear which country will provide the focus . author : anne thomas editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de asia at the berlinale at the 60th berlin film festival , asia ’ s movie industry has once again shown itself to be of very high quality .
anne thomas has spent the week scurrying from one packed theater to the next .
-lrb- 19.02.2010 -rrb- bollywood superstar shah rukh khan at the berlinale at the weekend , one of the most eagerly awaited asian stars stopped in berlin : bollywood hero shah rukh khan .
-lrb- 15.02.2010 -rrb- www-links asian hot shots festival feedback what 's your favorite film ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . climate talks progress was slow at global negotiations that ended in bangkok on friday .
jürgen maier , director of the german ngo forum on environment and development , on the role of asian states in the talks april asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan floods oxfam has published a pakistan flood affectees survey to highlight what the survivors urgently need .
oxfam 's fatima naqvi talks about the report listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 12.04.11 bric is becoming brics resentment against the us in pakistan india 's textile hub facing crisis podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback which team is your pick to win the german cup ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live bundesliga predictions bumpy progress dw 's soccer pundits are having their bumps felt in an attempt to predict match day 15 results .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback which team is your pick to win the german cup ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback which team is your pick to win the german cup ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions week ten predictions dw 's experts consulted the spirit world before making their predictions for match day .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg players bremen and peru 's claudio pizarro talks on becoming the top foreign scorer in bundesliga history .
watch the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- feedback would you want to buy an electric car with a 600 kilometer range ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- feedback would you want to buy an electric car with a 600 kilometer range ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
haiti unrest haiti is on edge as angry protesters block streets and set fires to contest the election result .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cuban reforms ordinary cubans show mixed reactions to the government 's ground-breaking economic reforms .
listen to the report podcast series in this week 's generation change , meet a school shooting survivor who is fighting for gun control .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
' ugly ' dancing celebrated as art form in german contest -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 26.10.2010 ' ugly ' dancing celebrated as art form in german contest großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the ugly dance worldcup celebrated off-beat moves in normal dance competitions , it 's the best dancers who receive the award but at the ugly dance world cup in hamburg , the winners were those who made the biggest impact with their unconventional moves . the music playing at the terrace hill club in hamburg is not particularly appealing .
in fact , it is rather ugly .
and this makes it a perfect match to tonight 's theme : the ugly dance world cup . four young men in their early twenties are dancing on the stage - or just moving about strangely to tacky 90s party music , depending on how you see it .
one of them is jumping around and flailing his arms , out of sync with the music .
another is holding his hands bashfully over his crotch , while yet another just stands there , pretending to play a recorder . this is not something that most would describe as an artistic performance - but according to florian schueppel , the event 's manager , it is . " ugly dance is the art of unattractive dancing , " said schueppel .
" we are not looking for bad dancers , but people who do ugly dancing artfully . " the winner is the one who gets booed the most the four young men on the stage call themselves dezentiner -lrb- decent ones -rrb- and have travelled here from a small town 150 kilometers away .
they hope to win this competition and become world champions in ugly dancing .
they put a lot of effort into their application entry , which involved uploading a video of their dance onto youtube .
it made the top ten entries . tonight , the performing act that receives the most boos from the audience wins .
to increase their chances of coming first , dezentiner have developed a special style that ranges from " dancing wildly to standing around shyly , " according to group member michael beth , alias " shy guy . " the ugly dance world cup is mostly about having fun , but schueppel says it is also about creativity and art .
" the artistic part of it is doing what the audience does n't expect , " explained schueppel .
" movements that are unknown , being out of rhythm , mixing styles - there is a lot of room for ugliness there . " bildunterschrift : the terrace hill club in hamburg was packed with fans of unconventional moves as the competitors strutted their stuff ugly aesthetics however , the concept of celebrating what is not conventionally attractive is not so new .
german philosopher karl rosenkranz described the " aesthetic of ugliness " 150 years ago , claiming that ugliness should have its place in art . this evening 's show brings rosenkranz 's theory to life .
ten teams from germany , luxembourg and switzerland are competing for the title .
at around eleven the preliminary round is in full swing .
the chucklines of norris - two young women from luxembourg - come onto the stage .
they are wearing pink leggings , strange sweatbands and oversized silk blouses .
they throw themselves repeatedly on the floor , wave their legs about , jump up again and dance out of rhythm . role models for reluctant dancers ?
the two want their " ugliness " to be taken seriously , but their act seems to make a rather cute impression .
two male groups make it into the final round : inferno ragazzi , who show a lot of skin , and the dezentiner .
the latter manage to win the audience 's approval with their signature move , " shy dance . " with the cup in their hands , the group conveys its message to the dancers of this world : " try to dance in an ugly way .
make yourselves different from the masses , just like we did . " author : manfred goetzke -lrb- ew -rrb- editor : neale lytollis send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german hip-hop at the shanghai expo at the german expo pavilion in shanghai , one could easily see how hip-hop is transcending borders .
the pavilion called the " balancity " featured hip-hop during a month long program with graffiti , break-dance and music .
-lrb- 30.08.2010 -rrb- berlin dance festival explores human rights at berlin 's international dance festival , choreographers tackled issues like the islamic veil and the failures of the international community in upholding human rights .
the result was n't necessarily comfortable .
-lrb- 03.09.2010 -rrb- germans are falling in love with tango the germans may not be famous for passionate physical expression , but many are swooning for argentinean tango .
last year , it was added to unesco 's world heritage list and for 2010 it has been named dance of the year .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic impulse dance festival -lrb- 27.11.2007 -rrb- dance science – dancing with intelligence -lrb- 18.01.2010 -rrb- arts.21 # dance theater 's revolutionary – the death of pina bausch # 05.07.2009 feedback what has been your most embarrassing dancefloor experience ?
share your horror stories with us and do n't forget to include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture calendar april happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
art meet several artists who live in a small world and miniaturize their work .
the filmmaker the model builder the engraver the painter the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 11 - jupiter jones are moving on up subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
' ugly ' dancing celebrated as art form in german contest -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 26.10.2010 ' ugly ' dancing celebrated as art form in german contest großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the ugly dance worldcup celebrated off-beat moves in normal dance competitions , it 's the best dancers who receive the award but at the ugly dance world cup in hamburg , the winners were those who made the biggest impact with their unconventional moves . the music playing at the terrace hill club in hamburg is not particularly appealing .
in fact , it is rather ugly .
and this makes it a perfect match to tonight 's theme : the ugly dance world cup . four young men in their early twenties are dancing on the stage - or just moving about strangely to tacky 90s party music , depending on how you see it .
one of them is jumping around and flailing his arms , out of sync with the music .
another is holding his hands bashfully over his crotch , while yet another just stands there , pretending to play a recorder . this is not something that most would describe as an artistic performance - but according to florian schueppel , the event 's manager , it is . " ugly dance is the art of unattractive dancing , " said schueppel .
" we are not looking for bad dancers , but people who do ugly dancing artfully . " the winner is the one who gets booed the most the four young men on the stage call themselves dezentiner -lrb- decent ones -rrb- and have travelled here from a small town 150 kilometers away .
they hope to win this competition and become world champions in ugly dancing .
they put a lot of effort into their application entry , which involved uploading a video of their dance onto youtube .
it made the top ten entries . tonight , the performing act that receives the most boos from the audience wins .
to increase their chances of coming first , dezentiner have developed a special style that ranges from " dancing wildly to standing around shyly , " according to group member michael beth , alias " shy guy . " the ugly dance world cup is mostly about having fun , but schueppel says it is also about creativity and art .
" the artistic part of it is doing what the audience does n't expect , " explained schueppel .
" movements that are unknown , being out of rhythm , mixing styles - there is a lot of room for ugliness there . " bildunterschrift : the terrace hill club in hamburg was packed with fans of unconventional moves as the competitors strutted their stuff ugly aesthetics however , the concept of celebrating what is not conventionally attractive is not so new .
german philosopher karl rosenkranz described the " aesthetic of ugliness " 150 years ago , claiming that ugliness should have its place in art . this evening 's show brings rosenkranz 's theory to life .
ten teams from germany , luxembourg and switzerland are competing for the title .
at around eleven the preliminary round is in full swing .
the chucklines of norris - two young women from luxembourg - come onto the stage .
they are wearing pink leggings , strange sweatbands and oversized silk blouses .
they throw themselves repeatedly on the floor , wave their legs about , jump up again and dance out of rhythm . role models for reluctant dancers ?
the two want their " ugliness " to be taken seriously , but their act seems to make a rather cute impression .
two male groups make it into the final round : inferno ragazzi , who show a lot of skin , and the dezentiner .
the latter manage to win the audience 's approval with their signature move , " shy dance . " with the cup in their hands , the group conveys its message to the dancers of this world : " try to dance in an ugly way .
make yourselves different from the masses , just like we did . " author : manfred goetzke -lrb- ew -rrb- editor : neale lytollis send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german hip-hop at the shanghai expo at the german expo pavilion in shanghai , one could easily see how hip-hop is transcending borders .
the pavilion called the " balancity " featured hip-hop during a month long program with graffiti , break-dance and music .
-lrb- 30.08.2010 -rrb- berlin dance festival explores human rights at berlin 's international dance festival , choreographers tackled issues like the islamic veil and the failures of the international community in upholding human rights .
the result was n't necessarily comfortable .
-lrb- 03.09.2010 -rrb- germans are falling in love with tango the germans may not be famous for passionate physical expression , but many are swooning for argentinean tango .
last year , it was added to unesco 's world heritage list and for 2010 it has been named dance of the year .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic impulse dance festival -lrb- 27.11.2007 -rrb- dance science – dancing with intelligence -lrb- 18.01.2010 -rrb- arts.21 # dance theater 's revolutionary – the death of pina bausch # 05.07.2009 feedback what has been your most embarrassing dancefloor experience ?
share your horror stories with us and do n't forget to include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
green chillies at berlin asian film festival -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 26.10.2010 green chillies at berlin asian film festival großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " supermen of malegaon " highlights the importance of cinema in india the third asian hot shots festival for film and video art at berlin 's moviemento came to a close with green chillies awards going to films from india , thailand and singapore . there was a full house for the opening of berlin 's most exciting asian film festival with a typically eclectic audience of diehard fans and a large contingent of guests from singapore , this year 's special focus . " i am delighted to have the chance to meet 16 young and talented filmmakers from my country , " jacky foo , singapore ’ s ambassador to germany , told the packed cinema .
he added that although singapore ’ s movie industry had been around since the 1930s , there had been a " remarkable development " in the past 10 years . this view was corroborated by mathias ortmann , a specialist on singapore cinema who co-organized the four-day event .
" our mission as an independent film festival is to salvage singapore productions from near obscurity , " he said .
" these films are our recommendations to you as an audience . " glen goei 's blue mansion set the tone the first recommendation went down extremely well .
glen goei 's " the blue mansion " is a shakespearean drama about the intrigues triggered by the sudden death of a pineapple business tycoon and tyrannical family head . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : singapore provided the focus for this year 's festival the local police quickly start snooping around thinking a murder might well have been committed , exacerbating tension between the siblings that is already electric .
in a comic twist , the dead tycoon , in limbo as it were , is able to observe the preparations for his funeral and is thus exposed to certain unwelcome truths about his children – they can not stand him , one of them is alcoholic , another one is gay and the third has a lover … those who know singapore well will immediately get the references to the island nation ’ s politics , society , media and censorship .
this is perhaps why the film has not yet been given a commercial release in singapore , where it is rumored the authorities were none too keen on it getting more exposure . but even an international audience unversed in the intricacies of singapore 's politics can appreciate the acting , the comedy and the examination of rivalries known to all those who belong to a family . shedding light on the universal through a local lens thus , the film sheds light on universal matters through a local lens and one of the aims of the festival is indeed to bring asia to europe and point out the parallels while insisting on the specifics . tina lange , one of the festival organizers , told deutsche welle that " asian filmmakers have their own style , their own way of dealing with what ’ s going on in their countries and they also use new digital aesthetics . " she added that the festival offered young filmmakers in particular a platform , where they could show their movies and discover other asian directors , who like them had often studied in europe or the us , creating a third product that was exciting for everybody . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : 80 films were shown during the four-day festival " supermen of malegaon " one film that especially highlighted how exciting cinema can be is faiza ahmed khan 's " supermen of malegaon , " a charming documentary about a man who sets out to re-make superman -lrb- " mollywood-style " -rrb- in a small city in maharashtra , which is plagued by poverty and social strife . the movie underlines the importance of cinema in india at all levels of society and the relief it can offer in times of disenchantment .
it is also a very encouraging indication of what one can do with little money but a lot of passion . for sheikh nasir manages to make his film despite the obstacles and keeps the viewer fascinated by the process all the way . " karma calling " " karma calling " by sarba das , meanwhile , is about an indian family trying to keep its head above water in hoboken , new jersey and about indians in new delhi trying to get to america . the raj family is falling to pieces and at risk of going bankrupt .
the son dreams of becoming the next biggest hip-hop producer , the older daughter dreams of a more fulfilling job than selling " artificial plants which look real " and the youngest daughter dreams of becoming the first hindu girl to have a bat mitzvah . their parents are overwhelmed by the circumstances .
like any american household , they are hounded by phone calls – the least welcome are from the creditors .
those making the calls are thousands of miles away , perfecting their accents and their knowledge of american geography . once again , the themes are universal – the protagonists are dissatisfied with their jobs , they can not afford the rent , they live in overcrowded conditions .
they all yearn for something more from life . and with some help from the gods , ganesha to be precise , their problems are " miraculously " solved , giving a happy hollywood ending to this amusing drama .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : india is perhaps the most film-loving nation in the world " made in pakistan " but not all the films at the festival are funny .
" made in pakistan , " a documentary by nasir khan , gives an insider view of the supposedly " most dangerous country in the world " .
the director follows the lives of four pakistanis – a very successful pr and events manager , the editor of a cultural magazine , a lawyer and a politician over a short period in 2007 . it is a film that contrasts deeply with the snippets of information about pakistan that are often to be found in the western media and brings this misinterpreted nation to life . the film was shot in 2007 , ending with benazir bhutto 's assassination in december that shocked the protagonists but did not unsettle their faith in their country 's future . " mother is a whore " lee sang-woo ’ s " mother is a whore " is an extremely disturbing film ostensibly about an aging prostitute whose pimp is her own son .
the viewer is at first repelled by the circumstances but soon realizes that the son does not do his job voluntarily . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a still from the disturbing south korean drama " mother is a whore " his tender attitude towards his mother is touching and it turns out she is not his victim at all – indeed she apparently likes her job as it allows her rare moments of affection .
in a parallel plot , the son 's estranged father is revealed to be a brutal rapist of young boys . the south korean director does not spell anything out , however .
instead , he challenges his viewers to question any moral certainties they think they might have .
it is not a film that leaves the viewer unscathed . the mark of a good film festival is that the selection raises thought and debate .
of 80 exciting productions from all over asia , eight competed for the green chillies award .
" green because they are not quite ripe but still they are hot and asian , " lange put it with a smile . in the end , the audience chose " agrarian utopia " by thai director uruphong raksasad and " white days " by lei yuan bin from singapore . next year 's festival will also take place at moviemento but as yet it is unclear which country will provide the focus . author : anne thomas editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de asia at the berlinale at the 60th berlin film festival , asia ’ s movie industry has once again shown itself to be of very high quality .
anne thomas has spent the week scurrying from one packed theater to the next .
-lrb- 19.02.2010 -rrb- bollywood superstar shah rukh khan at the berlinale at the weekend , one of the most eagerly awaited asian stars stopped in berlin : bollywood hero shah rukh khan .
-lrb- 15.02.2010 -rrb- www-links asian hot shots festival feedback what 's your favorite film ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . india-pakistan islamabad has banned the export of onions to india , saying there is a shortage in pakistan .
qamar agha of delhi 's jamia milia university on the impact of the ban so far reader response human rights , commonwealth games , mental illness our readers and asia compact listeners love to send in their views .
here ’ s a selection .
january asia quiz quiz of the month china-us the us has downplayed china 's military build-up and reports about its first stealth fighter plane .
bates gill from stockholm 's international peace research institute on whether china poses a threat to the us asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 07.01.11 praise for slaying of punjab governor shocks liberal pakistan islamabad bans onion exports to india price is high for foreign investors in china podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
rail strikes halted in germany ahead of talks -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de strikes -pipe- 26.10.2010 rail strikes halted in germany ahead of talks großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commuters faced disruption in the morning rush hour after delays and cancellations to train services on tuesday , rail passengers wo n't face any more strike action , for this week at least .
thousands of staff walked out in a dispute over pay imbalances . strikes over wage discrepancies on the german railways on tuesday have been called off , ahead of another round of negotiations on friday .
rail unions transnet and gdba said further stoppages were unlikely this week .
transport unions are calling for greater wage equality .
they say private operators pay their workers significantly less than the national operator deutsche bahn .
in total around 1,700 staff at deutsche bahn and other private rail companies walked out on tuesday , according to the unions .
the action , which began before the morning rush hour , came to an end at around 11a.m.
although the dispute centered on regional train operators , the strikes also affected long-distance services .
deutsche bahn said their free service hotline had been overwhelmed with calls .
" we hope that people have understood the message , " commented the head of transnet , alexander kirchner .
the union made clear that there would be more strikes , if there was no progress in talks between the unions and private rail companies later in the week .
regional strikes caused national disruption the strikes began in the states of north-rhine westphalia and bavaria on tuesday morning .
by 8 a.m. there were problems in almost every state in the country .
hub stations munich , frankfurt and cologne were particularly badly affected , with delays on both local and long-distance services .
deutsche bahn said it regretted that its services had been so hard hit by the strikes , particularly since the dispute centers on other companies .
" we 're astonished by the depth of interference in the public transport network , " said deutsche bahn spokesman ulrich homburg .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : long-distance and regional trains were affected rail unions are asking for pay rises from six of germany 's smaller regional rail operators .
the unions said that abellio , benex , keolis , veolia , hessische landesbahn and arriva paid staff as much as 20 percent less than the national operator paid its rail workers .
" the responsibility for this escalation lies clearly with the employers , " said a statement published on transnet 's website .
" we have been made an offer that would exacerbate the pay difference even further , and it was declared , at the same time , that this was the final offer . "
germany allocates regional services to private groups by tender , in line with european union law .
almost all of the country 's tracks belong to deutsche bahn , which other firms pay to use .
a spokesman for the independent operators said that major concessions had already been made in negotiations and that the firms " have no sympathy whatsoever for this strike . "
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , ap , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de rail delays hit germany as unions strike over pay dispute rail passengers in germany faced major delays on tuesday as transportation unions went on strike , calling for greater wage equality .
they say private operators pay significantly less than national operator deutsche bahn .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- rail strike shuts down belgium , disrupts international travel a 24-hour strike has shut down rail service in belgium and severely disrupted travel in northwestern europe .
disruptions are expected to last until tuesday morning .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- deutsche bahn faces rising competition on home tracks locomore , a small company backed by british and us investors , is planning to compete with deutsche bahn on the busy route between hamburg and cologne next year .
low fares and three trips daily each way are planned .
-lrb- 01.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic german rail workers strike to demand equal pay -lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- feedback were you affected by the rail strikes ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wood pigeon salad with marinated beetroot -pipe- lamb and game -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs euromaxx video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de home / dw-tv europa : euromaxx lamb and game -pipe- 26.10.2010 wood pigeon salad with marinated beetroot großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this recipe comes to us courtesy of tom batts , the head chef at deeson 's , a restaurant in canterbury , kent . wood pigeon salad with marinated beetroot ingredients 200 g lettuce mixed with cress , chives , parsley , purple basil , and chopped beetroot leaves 1 tbsp pine nuts 25 g blue cheese 7 slices of beetroot -lrb- marinated in red wine , malt vinegar , brown sugar , and a bouquet garni of bay leaves , star anise , a cinnamon stick , white peppercorns , mustard seeds -rrb- 2 wood pigeon breasts -lrb- each ca .
45 g -rrb- vinaigrette of olive oil , white wine vinegar , water , salt and pepper 1 tbsp butter preparation quickly sear the wood pigeon breasts in oil before adding the butter and sautéing for two minutes on each side .
keep shaking the pan to keep the pigeon doused in the butter .
when cooked it should still be pink inside .
remove the meat , and set aside .
deglaze the vinaigrette with the vinaigrette .
add the pine nuts and parsley .
cut the pigeon into thin slices , and arrange on the salad leave together with the blue cheese and sliced beetroot .
add generous spoonfuls of the pine nut vinaigrette . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic the report as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live overview beef and pork lamb and game poultry fish and seafood vegetarian dishes rice and pasta desserts and sweet temptations © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wood pigeon salad with marinated beetroot -pipe- lamb and game -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs euromaxx video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de home / dw-tv europa : euromaxx lamb and game -pipe- 26.10.2010 wood pigeon salad with marinated beetroot großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this recipe comes to us courtesy of tom batts , the head chef at deeson 's , a restaurant in canterbury , kent . wood pigeon salad with marinated beetroot ingredients 200 g lettuce mixed with cress , chives , parsley , purple basil , and chopped beetroot leaves 1 tbsp pine nuts 25 g blue cheese 7 slices of beetroot -lrb- marinated in red wine , malt vinegar , brown sugar , and a bouquet garni of bay leaves , star anise , a cinnamon stick , white peppercorns , mustard seeds -rrb- 2 wood pigeon breasts -lrb- each ca .
45 g -rrb- vinaigrette of olive oil , white wine vinegar , water , salt and pepper 1 tbsp butter preparation quickly sear the wood pigeon breasts in oil before adding the butter and sautéing for two minutes on each side .
keep shaking the pan to keep the pigeon doused in the butter .
when cooked it should still be pink inside .
remove the meat , and set aside .
deglaze the vinaigrette with the vinaigrette .
add the pine nuts and parsley .
cut the pigeon into thin slices , and arrange on the salad leave together with the blue cheese and sliced beetroot .
add generous spoonfuls of the pine nut vinaigrette . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic the report as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live overview beef and pork lamb and game poultry fish and seafood vegetarian dishes rice and pasta desserts and sweet temptations © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
living room kyrgyzstan -pipe- global living rooms -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs global 3000 video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de home / dw-tv europa : global 3000 global living rooms -pipe- 26.10.2010 living room kyrgyzstan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : seilman shorukova is 73 years old and she lives in the village of bokonbayevo in kyrgyzstan .
shorukova is a retired teacher . the walls of her living room are filled with tapestries and pictures of her family . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic the report as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live global ideas ideas for a cooler world showcasing passionate people and innovative projects aimed at combating climate change .
video podcasting what is video podcasting ?
rss feed : global 3000 itunes feed : global 3000 join in !
answer our questionnaire and become part of the global 3000 community .
our viewers present themselves © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
living room kyrgyzstan -pipe- global living rooms -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs global 3000 video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de home / dw-tv europa : global 3000 global living rooms -pipe- 26.10.2010 living room kyrgyzstan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : seilman shorukova is 73 years old and she lives in the village of bokonbayevo in kyrgyzstan .
shorukova is a retired teacher . the walls of her living room are filled with tapestries and pictures of her family . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic the report as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live global ideas ideas for a cooler world showcasing passionate people and innovative projects aimed at combating climate change .
video podcasting what is video podcasting ?
rss feed : global 3000 itunes feed : global 3000 join in !
answer our questionnaire and become part of the global 3000 community .
our viewers present themselves © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deforestation has slowed since th 1990s , but continues at an alarming rate saving forests is topping the agenda of a un summit on biodiversity in japan .
as the meeting enters its final days , there are growing fears that the talks could bog down amid acrimony between poor and rich countries . delegates at the un convention on biological diversity meeting in nagoya , japan , have put sustainable forestry management at the forefront of their negotiations , as these habitats are home to thousands of the world 's plant and animal species , and can also help slow global warming .
the un food and agriculture organisation -lrb- fao -rrb- estimates that the world is currently losing some 13 million hectares -lrb- 32 million acres -rrb- of forest cover per year , mostly in tropical countries .
that is down from 16 million hectares per year in the 1990s , but activists say it is still too much .
as well as hosting habitats for animals , forests help regulate climate and rainfall and also prevent soil erosion , flooding and landslides . seeing redd bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saving species is the aim of the conference , is forestry the way to get there ?
on tuesday , talks focused specifically on the un-backed scheme called redd -lrb- reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation -rrb- .
under redd , wealthier nations pledge funds to protect forests in poorer countries , which agree to forego their right to exploit these areas for timber or development .
" our forests need immediate action , " said brazil 's environment minister , izabella teizeira .
redd has attracted funding pledges from some rich nations , but at this point it is mostly known for its troubled start .
participants have bickered over how to manage the cash , as well as procedural issues .
the one-day redd focus was aimed at giving the scheme a boost prior to major climate talks in mexico in late november .
negotiations on the pact have taken years and the un says nagoya needs to agree tougher targets to save the forests , reefs , rivers and wetlands that underpin livelihoods and economies .
" we are at a very pivotal time .
we are losing biodiversity on the planet at an alarming rate that can not go on or our children and our grandchildren will be that much poorer , " canada 's environment minister jim prentice told reuters news service .
however , even supporters of the scheme are voicing concerns about its potential abuse .
this week , the group greenpeace took papua new guinea to task for its efforts to gain redd funding , saying the country was more interested in cash and " not currently ready " to be involved .
the report also cited a lack of political leadership to implement the program properly .
" there has been little international interest in png as a responsible recipient of redd funding due to high levels of corruption , ' carbon cowboy ' scandals , and a lack of political leadership on redd , " it said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many new drugs are derived from nature and genetic resources are a contentious issue slowing momentum the nagoya conference is also burdened by the failures of past pledges in 2002 , nations agreed to halt biodiversity loss by 2010 – a target which all countries have failed to achieve .
the talks , which continue through to october 29 , aim to set new targets for protecting animal and plant species by 2020 .
biologists say many species are threatened with a global extinction crisis , and delegates are trying to agree on ways to spend some $ 4 billion -lrb- 2.8 billion euros -rrb- to save forests in developing countries .
yet on tuesday , meetings seemed in danger of bogging down , the momentum sapped - as with climate talks - on acrimonious issues pitting rich countries against poor ones .
brazil , for example , has threatened to make the issue of sharing the benefits of genetic resources – such as wild plants from rainforests , prized by biotech companies for making medicines – a deal-breaker for any overarching agreement encompassing the talks ' other goals .
author : jennifer abramsohn -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- twenty-five-year conservation effort pays off on germany 's north sea coast germany 's wadden sea national park , along the north sea coast , turned 25 this month .
as the world struggles with agreements to reverse biodiversity loss , the wadden sea shines as an example of transnational conservation .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- in economic rethink , experts call for putting price tag on nature amid growing evidence of the global loss of biodiversity and ecosystems , economists are pushing businesses and governments to factor the price of ecological destruction into their decision-making .
-lrb- 28.09.2010 -rrb- germany voices reservations about ecuador 's oil fund when ecuador first mooted the idea of foregoing massive oil reserves under the yasuni national park in exchange for donations worth half its value , berlin was on board .
but now the government appears reluctant to commit .
-lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- www-links biodiversity in pictures feedback who should decide whether , and how , poor countries exploit their natural resources ?
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
climate change in-depth coverage of cancun and related environmental topics climate change environment listen to our weekly environment show or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 02.12.10 -rrb- development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
world in progress lf 081210 world in progress page global warming dw looks at angela merkel 's climate advisor joachim schellnhuber and his climate warnings .
watch the video .
health cheap , simple hygienic practices can protect millions from deadly , preventable diseases .
watch the report web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle .
weblog ice blog climate news and views - check out the ice blog of dw 's environment correspondent , irene quaile . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deforestation has slowed since th 1990s , but continues at an alarming rate saving forests is topping the agenda of a un summit on biodiversity in japan .
as the meeting enters its final days , there are growing fears that the talks could bog down amid acrimony between poor and rich countries . delegates at the un convention on biological diversity meeting in nagoya , japan , have put sustainable forestry management at the forefront of their negotiations , as these habitats are home to thousands of the world 's plant and animal species , and can also help slow global warming .
the un food and agriculture organisation -lrb- fao -rrb- estimates that the world is currently losing some 13 million hectares -lrb- 32 million acres -rrb- of forest cover per year , mostly in tropical countries .
that is down from 16 million hectares per year in the 1990s , but activists say it is still too much .
as well as hosting habitats for animals , forests help regulate climate and rainfall and also prevent soil erosion , flooding and landslides . seeing redd bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saving species is the aim of the conference , is forestry the way to get there ?
on tuesday , talks focused specifically on the un-backed scheme called redd -lrb- reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation -rrb- .
under redd , wealthier nations pledge funds to protect forests in poorer countries , which agree to forego their right to exploit these areas for timber or development .
" our forests need immediate action , " said brazil 's environment minister , izabella teizeira .
redd has attracted funding pledges from some rich nations , but at this point it is mostly known for its troubled start .
participants have bickered over how to manage the cash , as well as procedural issues .
the one-day redd focus was aimed at giving the scheme a boost prior to major climate talks in mexico in late november .
negotiations on the pact have taken years and the un says nagoya needs to agree tougher targets to save the forests , reefs , rivers and wetlands that underpin livelihoods and economies .
" we are at a very pivotal time .
we are losing biodiversity on the planet at an alarming rate that can not go on or our children and our grandchildren will be that much poorer , " canada 's environment minister jim prentice told reuters news service .
however , even supporters of the scheme are voicing concerns about its potential abuse .
this week , the group greenpeace took papua new guinea to task for its efforts to gain redd funding , saying the country was more interested in cash and " not currently ready " to be involved .
the report also cited a lack of political leadership to implement the program properly .
" there has been little international interest in png as a responsible recipient of redd funding due to high levels of corruption , ' carbon cowboy ' scandals , and a lack of political leadership on redd , " it said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many new drugs are derived from nature and genetic resources are a contentious issue slowing momentum the nagoya conference is also burdened by the failures of past pledges in 2002 , nations agreed to halt biodiversity loss by 2010 – a target which all countries have failed to achieve .
the talks , which continue through to october 29 , aim to set new targets for protecting animal and plant species by 2020 .
biologists say many species are threatened with a global extinction crisis , and delegates are trying to agree on ways to spend some $ 4 billion -lrb- 2.8 billion euros -rrb- to save forests in developing countries .
yet on tuesday , meetings seemed in danger of bogging down , the momentum sapped - as with climate talks - on acrimonious issues pitting rich countries against poor ones .
brazil , for example , has threatened to make the issue of sharing the benefits of genetic resources – such as wild plants from rainforests , prized by biotech companies for making medicines – a deal-breaker for any overarching agreement encompassing the talks ' other goals .
author : jennifer abramsohn -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- twenty-five-year conservation effort pays off on germany 's north sea coast germany 's wadden sea national park , along the north sea coast , turned 25 this month .
as the world struggles with agreements to reverse biodiversity loss , the wadden sea shines as an example of transnational conservation .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- in economic rethink , experts call for putting price tag on nature amid growing evidence of the global loss of biodiversity and ecosystems , economists are pushing businesses and governments to factor the price of ecological destruction into their decision-making .
-lrb- 28.09.2010 -rrb- germany voices reservations about ecuador 's oil fund when ecuador first mooted the idea of foregoing massive oil reserves under the yasuni national park in exchange for donations worth half its value , berlin was on board .
but now the government appears reluctant to commit .
-lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- www-links biodiversity in pictures feedback who should decide whether , and how , poor countries exploit their natural resources ?
please include your name and country in your reply . environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 06.01.11 -rrb- development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
world in progress 05.01.2010 world in progress page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
climate change in-depth coverage of cancun and related environmental topics climate change web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle .
weblog ice blog climate news and views - check out the ice blog of dw 's environment correspondent , irene quaile . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deforestation has slowed since th 1990s , but continues at an alarming rate saving forests is topping the agenda of a un summit on biodiversity in japan .
as the meeting enters its final days , there are growing fears that the talks could bog down amid acrimony between poor and rich countries . delegates at the un convention on biological diversity meeting in nagoya , japan , have put sustainable forestry management at the forefront of their negotiations , as these habitats are home to thousands of the world 's plant and animal species , and can also help slow global warming .
the un food and agriculture organisation -lrb- fao -rrb- estimates that the world is currently losing some 13 million hectares -lrb- 32 million acres -rrb- of forest cover per year , mostly in tropical countries .
that is down from 16 million hectares per year in the 1990s , but activists say it is still too much .
as well as hosting habitats for animals , forests help regulate climate and rainfall and also prevent soil erosion , flooding and landslides . seeing redd bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saving species is the aim of the conference , is forestry the way to get there ?
on tuesday , talks focused specifically on the un-backed scheme called redd -lrb- reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation -rrb- .
under redd , wealthier nations pledge funds to protect forests in poorer countries , which agree to forego their right to exploit these areas for timber or development .
" our forests need immediate action , " said brazil 's environment minister , izabella teizeira .
redd has attracted funding pledges from some rich nations , but at this point it is mostly known for its troubled start .
participants have bickered over how to manage the cash , as well as procedural issues .
the one-day redd focus was aimed at giving the scheme a boost prior to major climate talks in mexico in late november .
negotiations on the pact have taken years and the un says nagoya needs to agree tougher targets to save the forests , reefs , rivers and wetlands that underpin livelihoods and economies .
" we are at a very pivotal time .
we are losing biodiversity on the planet at an alarming rate that can not go on or our children and our grandchildren will be that much poorer , " canada 's environment minister jim prentice told reuters news service .
however , even supporters of the scheme are voicing concerns about its potential abuse .
this week , the group greenpeace took papua new guinea to task for its efforts to gain redd funding , saying the country was more interested in cash and " not currently ready " to be involved .
the report also cited a lack of political leadership to implement the program properly .
" there has been little international interest in png as a responsible recipient of redd funding due to high levels of corruption , ' carbon cowboy ' scandals , and a lack of political leadership on redd , " it said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many new drugs are derived from nature and genetic resources are a contentious issue slowing momentum the nagoya conference is also burdened by the failures of past pledges in 2002 , nations agreed to halt biodiversity loss by 2010 – a target which all countries have failed to achieve .
the talks , which continue through to october 29 , aim to set new targets for protecting animal and plant species by 2020 .
biologists say many species are threatened with a global extinction crisis , and delegates are trying to agree on ways to spend some $ 4 billion -lrb- 2.8 billion euros -rrb- to save forests in developing countries .
yet on tuesday , meetings seemed in danger of bogging down , the momentum sapped - as with climate talks - on acrimonious issues pitting rich countries against poor ones .
brazil , for example , has threatened to make the issue of sharing the benefits of genetic resources – such as wild plants from rainforests , prized by biotech companies for making medicines – a deal-breaker for any overarching agreement encompassing the talks ' other goals .
author : jennifer abramsohn -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- twenty-five-year conservation effort pays off on germany 's north sea coast germany 's wadden sea national park , along the north sea coast , turned 25 this month .
as the world struggles with agreements to reverse biodiversity loss , the wadden sea shines as an example of transnational conservation .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- in economic rethink , experts call for putting price tag on nature amid growing evidence of the global loss of biodiversity and ecosystems , economists are pushing businesses and governments to factor the price of ecological destruction into their decision-making .
-lrb- 28.09.2010 -rrb- germany voices reservations about ecuador 's oil fund when ecuador first mooted the idea of foregoing massive oil reserves under the yasuni national park in exchange for donations worth half its value , berlin was on board .
but now the government appears reluctant to commit .
-lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- www-links biodiversity in pictures feedback who should decide whether , and how , poor countries exploit their natural resources ?
please include your name and country in your reply . environment listen to our weekly environment show or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 04.11.10 -rrb- the living planet page development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
world in progress -lrb- 03.11.10 -rrb- world in progress page poaching aline kuehl , field biologist and saiga antelope specialist , discusses the damage of poaching .
listen to the interview biodiversity dw hosts a roundtable discussion among alternative nobel laureates on stopping extinction rates .
panel discussion -lrb- 16.09.10 -rrb- health cheap , simple hygienic practices can protect millions from deadly , preventable diseases .
watch the report weblog ice blog climate news and views - check out the ice blog of dw 's environment correspondent , irene quaile . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deforestation has slowed since th 1990s , but continues at an alarming rate saving forests is topping the agenda of a un summit on biodiversity in japan .
as the meeting enters its final days , there are growing fears that the talks could bog down amid acrimony between poor and rich countries . delegates at the un convention on biological diversity meeting in nagoya , japan , have put sustainable forestry management at the forefront of their negotiations , as these habitats are home to thousands of the world 's plant and animal species , and can also help slow global warming .
the un food and agriculture organisation -lrb- fao -rrb- estimates that the world is currently losing some 13 million hectares -lrb- 32 million acres -rrb- of forest cover per year , mostly in tropical countries .
that is down from 16 million hectares per year in the 1990s , but activists say it is still too much .
as well as hosting habitats for animals , forests help regulate climate and rainfall and also prevent soil erosion , flooding and landslides . seeing redd bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saving species is the aim of the conference , is forestry the way to get there ?
on tuesday , talks focused specifically on the un-backed scheme called redd -lrb- reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation -rrb- .
under redd , wealthier nations pledge funds to protect forests in poorer countries , which agree to forego their right to exploit these areas for timber or development .
" our forests need immediate action , " said brazil 's environment minister , izabella teizeira .
redd has attracted funding pledges from some rich nations , but at this point it is mostly known for its troubled start .
participants have bickered over how to manage the cash , as well as procedural issues .
the one-day redd focus was aimed at giving the scheme a boost prior to major climate talks in mexico in late november .
negotiations on the pact have taken years and the un says nagoya needs to agree tougher targets to save the forests , reefs , rivers and wetlands that underpin livelihoods and economies .
" we are at a very pivotal time .
we are losing biodiversity on the planet at an alarming rate that can not go on or our children and our grandchildren will be that much poorer , " canada 's environment minister jim prentice told reuters news service .
however , even supporters of the scheme are voicing concerns about its potential abuse .
this week , the group greenpeace took papua new guinea to task for its efforts to gain redd funding , saying the country was more interested in cash and " not currently ready " to be involved .
the report also cited a lack of political leadership to implement the program properly .
" there has been little international interest in png as a responsible recipient of redd funding due to high levels of corruption , ' carbon cowboy ' scandals , and a lack of political leadership on redd , " it said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many new drugs are derived from nature and genetic resources are a contentious issue slowing momentum the nagoya conference is also burdened by the failures of past pledges in 2002 , nations agreed to halt biodiversity loss by 2010 – a target which all countries have failed to achieve .
the talks , which continue through to october 29 , aim to set new targets for protecting animal and plant species by 2020 .
biologists say many species are threatened with a global extinction crisis , and delegates are trying to agree on ways to spend some $ 4 billion -lrb- 2.8 billion euros -rrb- to save forests in developing countries .
yet on tuesday , meetings seemed in danger of bogging down , the momentum sapped - as with climate talks - on acrimonious issues pitting rich countries against poor ones .
brazil , for example , has threatened to make the issue of sharing the benefits of genetic resources – such as wild plants from rainforests , prized by biotech companies for making medicines – a deal-breaker for any overarching agreement encompassing the talks ' other goals .
author : jennifer abramsohn -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- twenty-five-year conservation effort pays off on germany 's north sea coast germany 's wadden sea national park , along the north sea coast , turned 25 this month .
as the world struggles with agreements to reverse biodiversity loss , the wadden sea shines as an example of transnational conservation .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- in economic rethink , experts call for putting price tag on nature amid growing evidence of the global loss of biodiversity and ecosystems , economists are pushing businesses and governments to factor the price of ecological destruction into their decision-making .
-lrb- 28.09.2010 -rrb- germany voices reservations about ecuador 's oil fund when ecuador first mooted the idea of foregoing massive oil reserves under the yasuni national park in exchange for donations worth half its value , berlin was on board .
but now the government appears reluctant to commit .
-lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- www-links biodiversity in pictures feedback who should decide whether , and how , poor countries exploit their natural resources ?
please include your name and country in your reply . environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 07.04.11 -rrb- the living planet page development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
world in progress 6.4.2011 world in progress page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
plucky paul the octopus meets his maker -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 26.10.2010 plucky paul the octopus meets his maker großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : paul leaves behind a mother in england paul the octopus , who found global fame during this year 's football world cup for his perfect record in predicting game outcomes , has died , his aquarium in germany said tuesday . paul the octopus , that cephalopod who stupefied the world by maintaining a perfect record in predicting games at this year 's football world cup , has died by natural causes , his aquarium in germany said tuesday .
the english-born oracle , who kept his age a guarded secret , was the object of international intrigue and at the center of a dramatic month-long series of death threats and governmental offers of protection .
paul , known by his friends as the silent type , shot to stardom after correctly predicting the outcomes of eight world cup matches , including the final , which saw spain defeat the netherlands 1-0 .
" his success made him almost a bigger story than the world cup itself ... we had all naturally grown very fond of him and he will be sorely missed , " the oberhausen sea life center said in a statement .
for the prediction , two boxes were lowered into the salty soothsayer 's tank , each containing a mussel and the flags of the opposing teams .
watched by a myriad of reporters , paul would head to one box , wrench open the lid and gobble the tasty morsel , with the box he opted for being deemed the likely winner .
rarely , if ever , has an octopus to caused such a stir merely by speaking his mind .
however , it was a testament to his character that he steadfastly maintained his honor by sticking to his predictions , particularly in the face of international condemnation .
following his correct prediction that germany would defeat england , he was slammed by the british press .
then , when he said germany would fall to spain , he was the subject of death threats by sushi-hungry germans .
the episode prompted spanish leader jose luis rodriguez zapatero to call for paul to be given bodyguards , while the country 's industry minister offered him free passage to spain to " ensure his protection . "
author : darren mara -lrb- afp , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de paul the octopus retires , but a future in spain beckons paul the octopus was an uncanny judge of germany 's world cup fortunes .
now , he can relax and retire in his aquarium in oberhausen , in northern germany .
a village in spain , however , would like to give him a new home .
-lrb- 13.07.2010 -rrb- octopuses have a well-developed brain , are attracted to colors and are ' delicious ' despite the recent fame of a certain eight-legged prognosticator , scientists have known about the advanced behavior of octopuses for centuries .
-lrb- 09.07.2010 -rrb- fry paul the oracle octopus , german fans say spain 's political leaders are worried about the safety of the oracle octopus who correctly predicted germany 's defeat to spain in the world cup semifinals , as germans demand a public roasting .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the world 's most famous octopus has lost his life -lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- feedback how will paul be remembered ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet un climate summit in cancun , mexico listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
plucky paul the octopus meets his maker -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 26.10.2010 plucky paul the octopus meets his maker großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : paul leaves behind a mother in england paul the octopus , who found global fame during this year 's football world cup for his perfect record in predicting game outcomes , has died , his aquarium in germany said tuesday . paul the octopus , that cephalopod who stupefied the world by maintaining a perfect record in predicting games at this year 's football world cup , has died by natural causes , his aquarium in germany said tuesday .
the english-born oracle , who kept his age a guarded secret , was the object of international intrigue and at the center of a dramatic month-long series of death threats and governmental offers of protection .
paul , known by his friends as the silent type , shot to stardom after correctly predicting the outcomes of eight world cup matches , including the final , which saw spain defeat the netherlands 1-0 .
" his success made him almost a bigger story than the world cup itself ... we had all naturally grown very fond of him and he will be sorely missed , " the oberhausen sea life center said in a statement .
for the prediction , two boxes were lowered into the salty soothsayer 's tank , each containing a mussel and the flags of the opposing teams .
watched by a myriad of reporters , paul would head to one box , wrench open the lid and gobble the tasty morsel , with the box he opted for being deemed the likely winner .
rarely , if ever , has an octopus to caused such a stir merely by speaking his mind .
however , it was a testament to his character that he steadfastly maintained his honor by sticking to his predictions , particularly in the face of international condemnation .
following his correct prediction that germany would defeat england , he was slammed by the british press .
then , when he said germany would fall to spain , he was the subject of death threats by sushi-hungry germans .
the episode prompted spanish leader jose luis rodriguez zapatero to call for paul to be given bodyguards , while the country 's industry minister offered him free passage to spain to " ensure his protection . "
author : darren mara -lrb- afp , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de paul the octopus retires , but a future in spain beckons paul the octopus was an uncanny judge of germany 's world cup fortunes .
now , he can relax and retire in his aquarium in oberhausen , in northern germany .
a village in spain , however , would like to give him a new home .
-lrb- 13.07.2010 -rrb- octopuses have a well-developed brain , are attracted to colors and are ' delicious ' despite the recent fame of a certain eight-legged prognosticator , scientists have known about the advanced behavior of octopuses for centuries .
-lrb- 09.07.2010 -rrb- fry paul the oracle octopus , german fans say spain 's political leaders are worried about the safety of the oracle octopus who correctly predicted germany 's defeat to spain in the world cup semifinals , as germans demand a public roasting .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the world 's most famous octopus has lost his life -lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- feedback how will paul be remembered ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
plucky paul the octopus meets his maker -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 26.10.2010 plucky paul the octopus meets his maker großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : paul leaves behind a mother in england paul the octopus , who found global fame during this year 's football world cup for his perfect record in predicting game outcomes , has died , his aquarium in germany said tuesday . paul the octopus , that cephalopod who stupefied the world by maintaining a perfect record in predicting games at this year 's football world cup , has died by natural causes , his aquarium in germany said tuesday .
the english-born oracle , who kept his age a guarded secret , was the object of international intrigue and at the center of a dramatic month-long series of death threats and governmental offers of protection .
paul , known by his friends as the silent type , shot to stardom after correctly predicting the outcomes of eight world cup matches , including the final , which saw spain defeat the netherlands 1-0 .
" his success made him almost a bigger story than the world cup itself ... we had all naturally grown very fond of him and he will be sorely missed , " the oberhausen sea life center said in a statement .
for the prediction , two boxes were lowered into the salty soothsayer 's tank , each containing a mussel and the flags of the opposing teams .
watched by a myriad of reporters , paul would head to one box , wrench open the lid and gobble the tasty morsel , with the box he opted for being deemed the likely winner .
rarely , if ever , has an octopus to caused such a stir merely by speaking his mind .
however , it was a testament to his character that he steadfastly maintained his honor by sticking to his predictions , particularly in the face of international condemnation .
following his correct prediction that germany would defeat england , he was slammed by the british press .
then , when he said germany would fall to spain , he was the subject of death threats by sushi-hungry germans .
the episode prompted spanish leader jose luis rodriguez zapatero to call for paul to be given bodyguards , while the country 's industry minister offered him free passage to spain to " ensure his protection . "
author : darren mara -lrb- afp , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de paul the octopus retires , but a future in spain beckons paul the octopus was an uncanny judge of germany 's world cup fortunes .
now , he can relax and retire in his aquarium in oberhausen , in northern germany .
a village in spain , however , would like to give him a new home .
-lrb- 13.07.2010 -rrb- octopuses have a well-developed brain , are attracted to colors and are ' delicious ' despite the recent fame of a certain eight-legged prognosticator , scientists have known about the advanced behavior of octopuses for centuries .
-lrb- 09.07.2010 -rrb- fry paul the oracle octopus , german fans say spain 's political leaders are worried about the safety of the oracle octopus who correctly predicted germany 's defeat to spain in the world cup semifinals , as germans demand a public roasting .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the world 's most famous octopus has lost his life -lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- feedback how will paul be remembered ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
living room kyrgyzstan -pipe- global living rooms -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs global 3000 video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de home / dw-tv europa : global 3000 global living rooms -pipe- 26.10.2010 living room kyrgyzstan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : seilman shorukova is 73 years old and she lives in the village of bokonbayevo in kyrgyzstan .
shorukova is a retired teacher . the walls of her living room are filled with tapestries and pictures of her family . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic the report as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live glaubenssachen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live global ideas ideas for a cooler world showcasing passionate people and innovative projects aimed at combating climate change .
video podcasting what is video podcasting ?
rss feed : global 3000 itunes feed : global 3000 join in !
answer our questionnaire and become part of the global 3000 community .
our viewers present themselves © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should private security firms be banned in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . january asia quiz quiz of the month thailand the government has revoked the state of emergency in parts of southern thailand .
dw correspondent ron corben talks about bangkok 's policies in the deep south asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 31.12.10 china flexes its muscles in 2010 affirmative action in afghanistan asian english writers in 2010 podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should private security firms be banned in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . us-india deutsche welle 's new delhi correspondent murali krishnan talks about the euphoria that obama left in his wake november asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 09.11.10 obama returns to indonesia , his childhood home obama 's earlier visit to india a pr success myanmar refugees start heading home podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online china the chinese artist and civil rights activist ai weiwei was put under house arrest on friday .
ai weiwei talks to miao tian from his home in beijing dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
asia compact join us on facebook ! © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should private security firms be banned in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . thai election the international crisis group has published a new report on the upcoming polls in thailand .
rungrawee chalermsripinyorat , icg southeast asia analyst , talks about the think tank 's recommendations april asia quiz quiz of the month us-pakistan pakistan 's intelligence agency isi wants more control over cia operations on pakistani soil .
babak khalatbari from the konrad adenauer foundation on what pakistanis think about the tension with the us listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 13.04.11 india 's upa-led government on shaky ground indonesia struggles to keep the spread of hiv / aids in check bangkok plans repatriation of burmese refugees podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
' night milk ' aims to help people sleep -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de food and drink -pipe- 26.10.2010 ' night milk ' aims to help people sleep großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nacht-michkristalle received a patent earlier this month a munich company has just received a patent on " night milk crystals , " which are freeze-dried milk packets from cows with elevated levels of melatonin , a sleep-related hormone . many people know the frustrations of a sleepless night .
some listen to the radio , count sheep , or drink warm milk as a way to get to sleep .
one munich company , though , has just been awarded a patent for its melatonin-infused " night milk crystals . "
earlier this month , nacht-milchkristalle received its german patent , and continues to expand around europe , most recently to austria .
its product , a thin , freeze-dried nine-gram packet , which can then be added to any milk , has a retail price of 25 euros -lrb- $ 35 -rrb- for 16 packets .
the " night milk " has been available in germany for the past six months .
company representatives say that the milk contains naturally-induced elevated levels of melatonin , a hormone that can help with sleep .
melatonin is already available as an over-the-counter additive in the united states , but is more restricted in europe .
plus , it 's also used as an additive in some american canned drinks .
the american federal drug administration even started looking into the issue earlier this year .
company says red light is good for melatonin production bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the company says that it only milks its cows at night for maximum melatonin production " the cows need much light during the day and no light during the night , " said kai oppel , a company spokesperson .
" normally there is light in the cow shed also during the night .
and that 's why there 's less melatonin in the milk and in the blood .
so we installed lights and these lights are burning the whole day , but during the night we switch the lights off and have only red light .
we need red light because it 's long wave light which is about 650 nanometres and that 's a good light for melotonin production . "
the company adds that their cows are milked at midnight , when melatonin production is the highest .
" in all sheds milk is taken all the time and the consumer gets something like a mixture of different milks , " oppel said .
" so if you drink milk from the supermarket you have milk from 1 p.m. , from 6 p.m. , from 3 p.m. , the milk is mixed .
but we only take the night milk . "
some sleep scientists stay skeptical bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a german magazine called the night milk " nothing more than a placebo " jim lorne , the head of the sleep research center at loughbourough university in the united kingdom is worried how strong of an effect melatonin can have , even if the cows themselves manage to stay awake .
" melatonin is not the substance which induces sleep , " he said .
" it 's effective for telling the organism it 's night-time and as something to regulate the body clock .
of course if you 're a nocturnal animal , a rat or a fox , they still have this surge in melatonin and it tells them to wake up .
my point here is that melatonin can help adjust your sleep but i 'm not sure how good it is for making you sleep . "
lorne certainly is n't alone - the german health magazine " gute pillen , schlechte pillen " -lrb- good pills , bad pills -rrb- recently described this night milk as " nothing more than expensive placebos , " adding that the amount of melatonin is too small to be effective .
but that may be just part of the point .
if people expect this special milk to do the trick , perhaps a placebo effect is all they need to get a good night 's sleep .
" people think of a milky drink as a comfort and something that helps you sleep , and the thought that it contains melatonin as well , might be all part of the impression that it might do you good , " lorne added .
" i 'm not saying it 's not effective , i merely say let the buyer beware .
i 'm not so sure you can expect great things from melatonin anyway and whether it 's effective in this milk is another matter . "
author : jonathan gifford , munich editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swiss dairy farmers face uncertain future dairy farmers across europe have been protesting against falling milk prices for months .
the small-scale alpine farms of switzerland are among the producers hard hit by the dairy crisis .
-lrb- 06.10.2009 -rrb- milk prices up for debate - and protest - in brussels disgruntled dairy farmers drove tractors into brussels on monday and hurled eggs at the eu headquarters .
they ’ re trying to influence the eu agriculture ministers ' meeting on the milk market and get further concessions .
-lrb- 05.10.2009 -rrb- after germany , milk protest spills into the baltics about 1,000 people spilled into riga 's dome square on friday for splashes of unpasteurized milk as farmers rallied against the eu 's decision to raise milk quotas .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' night milk ' aims to help people sleep feedback do you want to try " night milk " ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . us japan drills us-japanese military drills have begun in the sea of japan as the region seethes with conflict .
eberhard sandschneider of the german council on foreign relations explains the significance of the exercise listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 03.12.10 gigantic us-japanese military maneuver kicks off taiwan 's ex-president begins 19-year sentence pakistan still reeling from floods podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . climate talks progress was slow at global negotiations that ended in bangkok on friday .
jürgen maier , director of the german ngo forum on environment and development , on the role of asian states in the talks april asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan floods oxfam has published a pakistan flood affectees survey to highlight what the survivors urgently need .
oxfam 's fatima naqvi talks about the report listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 12.04.11 bric is becoming brics resentment against the us in pakistan india 's textile hub facing crisis podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . india-pakistan islamabad has banned the export of onions to india , saying there is a shortage in pakistan .
qamar agha of delhi 's jamia milia university on the impact of the ban so far reader response human rights , commonwealth games , mental illness our readers and asia compact listeners love to send in their views .
here ’ s a selection .
january asia quiz quiz of the month china-us the us has downplayed china 's military build-up and reports about its first stealth fighter plane .
bates gill from stockholm 's international peace research institute on whether china poses a threat to the us asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 07.01.11 praise for slaying of punjab governor shocks liberal pakistan islamabad bans onion exports to india price is high for foreign investors in china podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
green chillies at berlin asian film festival -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 26.10.2010 green chillies at berlin asian film festival großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " supermen of malegaon " highlights the importance of cinema in india the third asian hot shots festival for film and video art at berlin 's moviemento came to a close with green chillies awards going to films from india , thailand and singapore . there was a full house for the opening of berlin 's most exciting asian film festival with a typically eclectic audience of diehard fans and a large contingent of guests from singapore , this year 's special focus . " i am delighted to have the chance to meet 16 young and talented filmmakers from my country , " jacky foo , singapore ’ s ambassador to germany , told the packed cinema .
he added that although singapore ’ s movie industry had been around since the 1930s , there had been a " remarkable development " in the past 10 years . this view was corroborated by mathias ortmann , a specialist on singapore cinema who co-organized the four-day event .
" our mission as an independent film festival is to salvage singapore productions from near obscurity , " he said .
" these films are our recommendations to you as an audience . " glen goei 's blue mansion set the tone the first recommendation went down extremely well .
glen goei 's " the blue mansion " is a shakespearean drama about the intrigues triggered by the sudden death of a pineapple business tycoon and tyrannical family head . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : singapore provided the focus for this year 's festival the local police quickly start snooping around thinking a murder might well have been committed , exacerbating tension between the siblings that is already electric .
in a comic twist , the dead tycoon , in limbo as it were , is able to observe the preparations for his funeral and is thus exposed to certain unwelcome truths about his children – they can not stand him , one of them is alcoholic , another one is gay and the third has a lover … those who know singapore well will immediately get the references to the island nation ’ s politics , society , media and censorship .
this is perhaps why the film has not yet been given a commercial release in singapore , where it is rumored the authorities were none too keen on it getting more exposure . but even an international audience unversed in the intricacies of singapore 's politics can appreciate the acting , the comedy and the examination of rivalries known to all those who belong to a family . shedding light on the universal through a local lens thus , the film sheds light on universal matters through a local lens and one of the aims of the festival is indeed to bring asia to europe and point out the parallels while insisting on the specifics . tina lange , one of the festival organizers , told deutsche welle that " asian filmmakers have their own style , their own way of dealing with what ’ s going on in their countries and they also use new digital aesthetics . " she added that the festival offered young filmmakers in particular a platform , where they could show their movies and discover other asian directors , who like them had often studied in europe or the us , creating a third product that was exciting for everybody . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : 80 films were shown during the four-day festival " supermen of malegaon " one film that especially highlighted how exciting cinema can be is faiza ahmed khan 's " supermen of malegaon , " a charming documentary about a man who sets out to re-make superman -lrb- " mollywood-style " -rrb- in a small city in maharashtra , which is plagued by poverty and social strife . the movie underlines the importance of cinema in india at all levels of society and the relief it can offer in times of disenchantment .
it is also a very encouraging indication of what one can do with little money but a lot of passion . for sheikh nasir manages to make his film despite the obstacles and keeps the viewer fascinated by the process all the way . " karma calling " " karma calling " by sarba das , meanwhile , is about an indian family trying to keep its head above water in hoboken , new jersey and about indians in new delhi trying to get to america . the raj family is falling to pieces and at risk of going bankrupt .
the son dreams of becoming the next biggest hip-hop producer , the older daughter dreams of a more fulfilling job than selling " artificial plants which look real " and the youngest daughter dreams of becoming the first hindu girl to have a bat mitzvah . their parents are overwhelmed by the circumstances .
like any american household , they are hounded by phone calls – the least welcome are from the creditors .
those making the calls are thousands of miles away , perfecting their accents and their knowledge of american geography . once again , the themes are universal – the protagonists are dissatisfied with their jobs , they can not afford the rent , they live in overcrowded conditions .
they all yearn for something more from life . and with some help from the gods , ganesha to be precise , their problems are " miraculously " solved , giving a happy hollywood ending to this amusing drama .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : india is perhaps the most film-loving nation in the world " made in pakistan " but not all the films at the festival are funny .
" made in pakistan , " a documentary by nasir khan , gives an insider view of the supposedly " most dangerous country in the world " .
the director follows the lives of four pakistanis – a very successful pr and events manager , the editor of a cultural magazine , a lawyer and a politician over a short period in 2007 . it is a film that contrasts deeply with the snippets of information about pakistan that are often to be found in the western media and brings this misinterpreted nation to life . the film was shot in 2007 , ending with benazir bhutto 's assassination in december that shocked the protagonists but did not unsettle their faith in their country 's future . " mother is a whore " lee sang-woo ’ s " mother is a whore " is an extremely disturbing film ostensibly about an aging prostitute whose pimp is her own son .
the viewer is at first repelled by the circumstances but soon realizes that the son does not do his job voluntarily . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a still from the disturbing south korean drama " mother is a whore " his tender attitude towards his mother is touching and it turns out she is not his victim at all – indeed she apparently likes her job as it allows her rare moments of affection .
in a parallel plot , the son 's estranged father is revealed to be a brutal rapist of young boys . the south korean director does not spell anything out , however .
instead , he challenges his viewers to question any moral certainties they think they might have .
it is not a film that leaves the viewer unscathed . the mark of a good film festival is that the selection raises thought and debate .
of 80 exciting productions from all over asia , eight competed for the green chillies award .
" green because they are not quite ripe but still they are hot and asian , " lange put it with a smile . in the end , the audience chose " agrarian utopia " by thai director uruphong raksasad and " white days " by lei yuan bin from singapore . next year 's festival will also take place at moviemento but as yet it is unclear which country will provide the focus . author : anne thomas editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de asia at the berlinale at the 60th berlin film festival , asia ’ s movie industry has once again shown itself to be of very high quality .
anne thomas has spent the week scurrying from one packed theater to the next .
-lrb- 19.02.2010 -rrb- bollywood superstar shah rukh khan at the berlinale at the weekend , one of the most eagerly awaited asian stars stopped in berlin : bollywood hero shah rukh khan .
-lrb- 15.02.2010 -rrb- www-links asian hot shots festival feedback what 's your favorite film ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . pakistan floods three months after the floods struck , some people have still not received aid .
maqbool malik of dw 's urdu service talks about the humanitarian aid situation in pakistan 's flood-affected areas november asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 02.11.10 china 's census is a logistical nightmare india 's uids could violate privacy pakistan 's flood disaster is far from over podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters asia compact join us on facebook !
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- feedback is the creation of new financial reforms reason enough to alter the lisbon treaty ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
arab world speedy sentence on monday , tunisia 's ex-president ben ali and his wife were sentenced in absentia to jail terms in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
human rights two bulgarian nurses reflect on their eight years spent falsely incarcerated in libyan jails .
watch the video podcast series lotta from finland combines her passions for gymnastics and volunteering .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
caucasus violence explodes in the republic of dagestan amid militants ' efforts to create a muslim nation .
listen to the report .
bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week liquid assets listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback which team is your pick to win the german cup ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks playing hurt it 's match day 28 in the bundesliga but dw 's tired pundits wish it was all over already ...
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home europe eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 25.11.10 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home europe turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 20.01.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home europe making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 31.03.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- 9800 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 22.06.11 rape in india 's uttar pradesh is a hot topic for debate refugees in their own country : biharis in bangladesh tribal communities in india face threat to their livelihood podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india security china is closing down tibet to foreign tourists before the 90th anniversary of the communist party .
phelim kine of human rights watch on the chinese government 's attitude and its consequences .
bangladesh bangladesh became a sovereign independent state in 1971 .
shameem chowdhuri of radio bangladesh betar talks about his experiences as a young freedom fighter fukushima japanese politics the japanese government can not decide who will foot the bill for the country 's nuclear disaster .
women living in fear a new poll lists afghanistan , india and pakistan as the most dangerous countries for women . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 afghan parliament afghan president hamid karzai yields to the pressure and agrees to inaugurate the new parliament .
bari hakim of deutsche welle 's afghan service says the new parliament will be stronger than the previous one asia compact join us on facebook !
korean peninsula north korean defectors want more active role s korea has agreed to hold high-level talks with the north , marking a breakthrough in the crisis .
january asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 25.01.11 afghan president karzai agrees to open the new parliament the fao warns of another food crisis indonesia 's president yudhoyono visits india podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 afpak richard holbrooke , us special envoy for afghanistan and pakistan , has died .
paul rogers from bradford university talks about holbrooke 's legacy for the region december asia quiz quiz of the month bangladesh thousands of garment workers protest after four die in police firing .
arun chowdhury talks to m. m. akash , professor of economics at dhaka university , about the root of the problem : minimum wages listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 15.12.10 exclusive interview with aung sun suu kyi chinese pm visits india podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online asia compact join us on facebook !
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
plucky paul the octopus meets his maker -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 26.10.2010 plucky paul the octopus meets his maker großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : paul leaves behind a mother in england paul the octopus , who found global fame during this year 's football world cup for his perfect record in predicting game outcomes , has died , his aquarium in germany said tuesday . paul the octopus , that cephalopod who stupefied the world by maintaining a perfect record in predicting games at this year 's football world cup , has died by natural causes , his aquarium in germany said tuesday .
the english-born oracle , who kept his age a guarded secret , was the object of international intrigue and at the center of a dramatic month-long series of death threats and governmental offers of protection .
paul , known by his friends as the silent type , shot to stardom after correctly predicting the outcomes of eight world cup matches , including the final , which saw spain defeat the netherlands 1-0 .
" his success made him almost a bigger story than the world cup itself ... we had all naturally grown very fond of him and he will be sorely missed , " the oberhausen sea life center said in a statement .
for the prediction , two boxes were lowered into the salty soothsayer 's tank , each containing a mussel and the flags of the opposing teams .
watched by a myriad of reporters , paul would head to one box , wrench open the lid and gobble the tasty morsel , with the box he opted for being deemed the likely winner .
rarely , if ever , has an octopus to caused such a stir merely by speaking his mind .
however , it was a testament to his character that he steadfastly maintained his honor by sticking to his predictions , particularly in the face of international condemnation .
following his correct prediction that germany would defeat england , he was slammed by the british press .
then , when he said germany would fall to spain , he was the subject of death threats by sushi-hungry germans .
the episode prompted spanish leader jose luis rodriguez zapatero to call for paul to be given bodyguards , while the country 's industry minister offered him free passage to spain to " ensure his protection . "
author : darren mara -lrb- afp , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de paul the octopus retires , but a future in spain beckons paul the octopus was an uncanny judge of germany 's world cup fortunes .
now , he can relax and retire in his aquarium in oberhausen , in northern germany .
a village in spain , however , would like to give him a new home .
-lrb- 13.07.2010 -rrb- octopuses have a well-developed brain , are attracted to colors and are ' delicious ' despite the recent fame of a certain eight-legged prognosticator , scientists have known about the advanced behavior of octopuses for centuries .
-lrb- 09.07.2010 -rrb- fry paul the oracle octopus , german fans say spain 's political leaders are worried about the safety of the oracle octopus who correctly predicted germany 's defeat to spain in the world cup semifinals , as germans demand a public roasting .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the world 's most famous octopus has lost his life -lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- 9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
arab world speedy sentence on monday , tunisia 's ex-president ben ali and his wife were sentenced in absentia to jail terms in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
human rights two bulgarian nurses reflect on their eight years spent falsely incarcerated in libyan jails .
watch the video podcast series lotta from finland combines her passions for gymnastics and volunteering .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
caucasus violence explodes in the republic of dagestan amid militants ' efforts to create a muslim nation .
listen to the report .
bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should private security firms be banned in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 uzbekistan human rights organizations have slammed the eu for hosting uzbek president islam karimov .
andrew stroehlein , of international crisis group , says the eu does n't have a clear policy regarding central asian dictators asia compact join us on facebook !
korean peninsula north korean defectors want more active role s korea has agreed to hold high-level talks with the north , marking a breakthrough in the crisis .
january asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 26.01.11 afghan president hamid karzai inaugurates new parliament rights organizations criticize eu for hosting uzbek president survey finds nine out of 10 cambodian farmers suffer from pesticide poisoning podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9800 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 23.06.11 india begins peace talks with pakistan tackling desertification in china a pakistani author fights for his language podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india security indian foreign secretary nirupama rao is in islamabad for peace talks with the pakistani government .
dw correspondent murali krishnan talks about the latest developments bangladesh bangladesh became a sovereign independent state in 1971 .
shameem chowdhuri of radio bangladesh betar talks about his experiences as a young freedom fighter fukushima japanese politics the japanese government can not decide who will foot the bill for the country 's nuclear disaster .
women living in fear a new poll lists afghanistan , india and pakistan as the most dangerous countries for women . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback which team is your pick to win the german cup ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany decades later , film classic ' metropolis ' still impresses listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
politics pressure mounting thai prime minister-elect yingluck shinawatra faces big challenges in office .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt - das politikmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deforestation has slowed since th 1990s , but continues at an alarming rate saving forests is topping the agenda of a un summit on biodiversity in japan .
as the meeting enters its final days , there are growing fears that the talks could bog down amid acrimony between poor and rich countries . delegates at the un convention on biological diversity meeting in nagoya , japan , have put sustainable forestry management at the forefront of their negotiations , as these habitats are home to thousands of the world 's plant and animal species , and can also help slow global warming .
the un food and agriculture organisation -lrb- fao -rrb- estimates that the world is currently losing some 13 million hectares -lrb- 32 million acres -rrb- of forest cover per year , mostly in tropical countries .
that is down from 16 million hectares per year in the 1990s , but activists say it is still too much .
as well as hosting habitats for animals , forests help regulate climate and rainfall and also prevent soil erosion , flooding and landslides . seeing redd bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saving species is the aim of the conference , is forestry the way to get there ?
on tuesday , talks focused specifically on the un-backed scheme called redd -lrb- reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation -rrb- .
under redd , wealthier nations pledge funds to protect forests in poorer countries , which agree to forego their right to exploit these areas for timber or development .
" our forests need immediate action , " said brazil 's environment minister , izabella teizeira .
redd has attracted funding pledges from some rich nations , but at this point it is mostly known for its troubled start .
participants have bickered over how to manage the cash , as well as procedural issues .
the one-day redd focus was aimed at giving the scheme a boost prior to major climate talks in mexico in late november .
negotiations on the pact have taken years and the un says nagoya needs to agree tougher targets to save the forests , reefs , rivers and wetlands that underpin livelihoods and economies .
" we are at a very pivotal time .
we are losing biodiversity on the planet at an alarming rate that can not go on or our children and our grandchildren will be that much poorer , " canada 's environment minister jim prentice told reuters news service .
however , even supporters of the scheme are voicing concerns about its potential abuse .
this week , the group greenpeace took papua new guinea to task for its efforts to gain redd funding , saying the country was more interested in cash and " not currently ready " to be involved .
the report also cited a lack of political leadership to implement the program properly .
" there has been little international interest in png as a responsible recipient of redd funding due to high levels of corruption , ' carbon cowboy ' scandals , and a lack of political leadership on redd , " it said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many new drugs are derived from nature and genetic resources are a contentious issue slowing momentum the nagoya conference is also burdened by the failures of past pledges in 2002 , nations agreed to halt biodiversity loss by 2010 – a target which all countries have failed to achieve .
the talks , which continue through to october 29 , aim to set new targets for protecting animal and plant species by 2020 .
biologists say many species are threatened with a global extinction crisis , and delegates are trying to agree on ways to spend some $ 4 billion -lrb- 2.8 billion euros -rrb- to save forests in developing countries .
yet on tuesday , meetings seemed in danger of bogging down , the momentum sapped - as with climate talks - on acrimonious issues pitting rich countries against poor ones .
brazil , for example , has threatened to make the issue of sharing the benefits of genetic resources – such as wild plants from rainforests , prized by biotech companies for making medicines – a deal-breaker for any overarching agreement encompassing the talks ' other goals .
author : jennifer abramsohn -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- twenty-five-year conservation effort pays off on germany 's north sea coast germany 's wadden sea national park , along the north sea coast , turned 25 this month .
as the world struggles with agreements to reverse biodiversity loss , the wadden sea shines as an example of transnational conservation .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- in economic rethink , experts call for putting price tag on nature amid growing evidence of the global loss of biodiversity and ecosystems , economists are pushing businesses and governments to factor the price of ecological destruction into their decision-making .
-lrb- 28.09.2010 -rrb- germany voices reservations about ecuador 's oil fund when ecuador first mooted the idea of foregoing massive oil reserves under the yasuni national park in exchange for donations worth half its value , berlin was on board .
but now the government appears reluctant to commit .
-lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- www-links biodiversity in pictures 9798 environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 21.07.11 -rrb- the living planet page development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
listen to world in progress -lrb- 20.07.11 -rrb- world in progress page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
plucky paul the octopus meets his maker -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 26.10.2010 plucky paul the octopus meets his maker großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : paul leaves behind a mother in england paul the octopus , who found global fame during this year 's football world cup for his perfect record in predicting game outcomes , has died , his aquarium in germany said tuesday . paul the octopus , that cephalopod who stupefied the world by maintaining a perfect record in predicting games at this year 's football world cup , has died by natural causes , his aquarium in germany said tuesday .
the english-born oracle , who kept his age a guarded secret , was the object of international intrigue and at the center of a dramatic month-long series of death threats and governmental offers of protection .
paul , known by his friends as the silent type , shot to stardom after correctly predicting the outcomes of eight world cup matches , including the final , which saw spain defeat the netherlands 1-0 .
" his success made him almost a bigger story than the world cup itself ... we had all naturally grown very fond of him and he will be sorely missed , " the oberhausen sea life center said in a statement .
for the prediction , two boxes were lowered into the salty soothsayer 's tank , each containing a mussel and the flags of the opposing teams .
watched by a myriad of reporters , paul would head to one box , wrench open the lid and gobble the tasty morsel , with the box he opted for being deemed the likely winner .
rarely , if ever , has an octopus to caused such a stir merely by speaking his mind .
however , it was a testament to his character that he steadfastly maintained his honor by sticking to his predictions , particularly in the face of international condemnation .
following his correct prediction that germany would defeat england , he was slammed by the british press .
then , when he said germany would fall to spain , he was the subject of death threats by sushi-hungry germans .
the episode prompted spanish leader jose luis rodriguez zapatero to call for paul to be given bodyguards , while the country 's industry minister offered him free passage to spain to " ensure his protection . "
author : darren mara -lrb- afp , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de paul the octopus retires , but a future in spain beckons paul the octopus was an uncanny judge of germany 's world cup fortunes .
now , he can relax and retire in his aquarium in oberhausen , in northern germany .
a village in spain , however , would like to give him a new home .
-lrb- 13.07.2010 -rrb- octopuses have a well-developed brain , are attracted to colors and are ' delicious ' despite the recent fame of a certain eight-legged prognosticator , scientists have known about the advanced behavior of octopuses for centuries .
-lrb- 09.07.2010 -rrb- fry paul the oracle octopus , german fans say spain 's political leaders are worried about the safety of the oracle octopus who correctly predicted germany 's defeat to spain in the world cup semifinals , as germans demand a public roasting .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the world 's most famous octopus has lost his life -lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
plucky paul the octopus meets his maker -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de lifestyle -pipe- 26.10.2010 plucky paul the octopus meets his maker großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : paul leaves behind a mother in england paul the octopus , who found global fame during this year 's football world cup for his perfect record in predicting game outcomes , has died , his aquarium in germany said tuesday . paul the octopus , that cephalopod who stupefied the world by maintaining a perfect record in predicting games at this year 's football world cup , has died by natural causes , his aquarium in germany said tuesday .
the english-born oracle , who kept his age a guarded secret , was the object of international intrigue and at the center of a dramatic month-long series of death threats and governmental offers of protection .
paul , known by his friends as the silent type , shot to stardom after correctly predicting the outcomes of eight world cup matches , including the final , which saw spain defeat the netherlands 1-0 .
" his success made him almost a bigger story than the world cup itself ... we had all naturally grown very fond of him and he will be sorely missed , " the oberhausen sea life center said in a statement .
for the prediction , two boxes were lowered into the salty soothsayer 's tank , each containing a mussel and the flags of the opposing teams .
watched by a myriad of reporters , paul would head to one box , wrench open the lid and gobble the tasty morsel , with the box he opted for being deemed the likely winner .
rarely , if ever , has an octopus to caused such a stir merely by speaking his mind .
however , it was a testament to his character that he steadfastly maintained his honor by sticking to his predictions , particularly in the face of international condemnation .
following his correct prediction that germany would defeat england , he was slammed by the british press .
then , when he said germany would fall to spain , he was the subject of death threats by sushi-hungry germans .
the episode prompted spanish leader jose luis rodriguez zapatero to call for paul to be given bodyguards , while the country 's industry minister offered him free passage to spain to " ensure his protection . "
author : darren mara -lrb- afp , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de paul the octopus retires , but a future in spain beckons paul the octopus was an uncanny judge of germany 's world cup fortunes .
now , he can relax and retire in his aquarium in oberhausen , in northern germany .
a village in spain , however , would like to give him a new home .
-lrb- 13.07.2010 -rrb- octopuses have a well-developed brain , are attracted to colors and are ' delicious ' despite the recent fame of a certain eight-legged prognosticator , scientists have known about the advanced behavior of octopuses for centuries .
-lrb- 09.07.2010 -rrb- fry paul the oracle octopus , german fans say spain 's political leaders are worried about the safety of the oracle octopus who correctly predicted germany 's defeat to spain in the world cup semifinals , as germans demand a public roasting .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the world 's most famous octopus has lost his life -lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china exploding watermelons some beijing housewives grow vegetables at home because they do n't trust the market .
nuclear health scare a health scare hits japan as radioactive beef finds its way into supermarkets across the country .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- 9798 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 17.06.11 germany protests death sentence to indian conspirator china clamps down on tibet ahead of anniversary bear bile endangers bears in asia podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile indonesia investment chief gita wiryawan speaks about scope for investment in indonesia security china is closing down tibet to foreign tourists before the 90th anniversary of the communist party .
phelim kine of human rights watch on the chinese government 's attitude and its consequences .
women afghanistan , india and pakistan are among the most dangerous countries for women in the world .
antonella notari of women change makers on what makes these countries so hostile for women .
women fukushima © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media japanese economy japan 's earthquake and tsunami are likely to affect the japanese economy in the coming weeks .
the world bank 's representative in washington , vikram nehru , believes it all depends on how well the japanese cope with the nculear issue libya air strikes china 's state media condemned military strikes on libya , saying they are a western grab for power .
gui hao , china expert at deutsche welle 's asia department , talks about the implications of the enhanced rhetoric march asia quiz quiz of the month digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.03.11 tibet exile government accepts dalai lama 's retirement gurkhas in britain fight for their rights dark times ahead for indian ' god-men ' podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback which team is your pick to win the german cup ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback which team is your pick to win the german cup ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the results gurus dw 's soccer pundits attempt to predict match day 13 's results while achieving spiritual nirvana .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
australia awash it 's being described as a flood of biblical proportions with thousands of people and homes affected .
watch the video the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 reader response feedback our readers and asia compact listeners love to send in their views .
here 's a selection .
global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media ceasefire thailand and cambodia have agreed on a new ceasefire deal after the earlier one failed .
robert carmichael , dw correspndent in phnom penh , reports on the latest developments listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 29.04.11 thailand and cambodia agree on a new ceasefire deal the new chinese census shows the communist country is ageing non-formal education in bhutan is on the rise podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile militancy there have been three militant attacks on the pakistan navy in karachi in less than a week .
former law minister of pakistan , iqbal haider , admits that his country 's security establishment is double-minded about the taliban prison break about 475 prisoners , mostly taliban fighters , managed to break out of a jail in kandahar on monday .
thomas ruttig of the afghanistan analysis network believes that the afghan government is corrupt and incompetent to run its affairs april asia quiz quiz of the month justice hate crime twelve men suspected of attacking members of the ahmadiyah community face trial in indonesia .
newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 environment the next round of global climate change talks kicks off in cancun at the end of the month .
dilip sinha , additional secretary at the indian foreign ministry , talks about the developing countries ' expectations of cancun human rights why are six countries not attending the nobel peace prize ceremony this year ?
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 19.11.10 burmese community in india has mixed feelings developing countries prepare for climate talks phnom penh gears up for water festival podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 january asia quiz quiz of the month north korea us envoy stephen bosworth is hopeful six-nation talks can resume soon .
ruediger frank , an expert on korean politics at the university of vienna , explains why all sides are suddenly talking peace and dialogue again asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 05.01.11 pakistani religious leaders warn people grieving for slain punjab governor will meet same fate study says us supplies more arms to dictatorships than china does punjabi weddings don a corporate look podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live journey to mecca follow dw reporter ali almakhlafi on the hajj and get an inside view of the muslim pilgrimage .
ali 's journal : day 3 focus eye on defense nato meets in lisbon from nov .
19-20 for a summit to discuss the new challenges facing the alliance .
focus free at last focus on democracy : myanmar leader aung san suu kyi is free after seven years of house arrest .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live politik direkt - das politikmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
' night milk ' aims to help people sleep -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de food and drink -pipe- 26.10.2010 ' night milk ' aims to help people sleep großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nacht-michkristalle received a patent earlier this month a munich company has just received a patent on " night milk crystals , " which are freeze-dried milk packets from cows with elevated levels of melatonin , a sleep-related hormone . many people know the frustrations of a sleepless night .
some listen to the radio , count sheep , or drink warm milk as a way to get to sleep .
one munich company , though , has just been awarded a patent for its melatonin-infused " night milk crystals . "
earlier this month , nacht-milchkristalle received its german patent , and continues to expand around europe , most recently to austria .
its product , a thin , freeze-dried nine-gram packet , which can then be added to any milk , has a retail price of 25 euros -lrb- $ 35 -rrb- for 16 packets .
the " night milk " has been available in germany for the past six months .
company representatives say that the milk contains naturally-induced elevated levels of melatonin , a hormone that can help with sleep .
melatonin is already available as an over-the-counter additive in the united states , but is more restricted in europe .
plus , it 's also used as an additive in some american canned drinks .
the american federal drug administration even started looking into the issue earlier this year .
company says red light is good for melatonin production bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the company says that it only milks its cows at night for maximum melatonin production " the cows need much light during the day and no light during the night , " said kai oppel , a company spokesperson .
" normally there is light in the cow shed also during the night .
and that 's why there 's less melatonin in the milk and in the blood .
so we installed lights and these lights are burning the whole day , but during the night we switch the lights off and have only red light .
we need red light because it 's long wave light which is about 650 nanometres and that 's a good light for melotonin production . "
the company adds that their cows are milked at midnight , when melatonin production is the highest .
" in all sheds milk is taken all the time and the consumer gets something like a mixture of different milks , " oppel said .
" so if you drink milk from the supermarket you have milk from 1 p.m. , from 6 p.m. , from 3 p.m. , the milk is mixed .
but we only take the night milk . "
some sleep scientists stay skeptical bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a german magazine called the night milk " nothing more than a placebo " jim lorne , the head of the sleep research center at loughbourough university in the united kingdom is worried how strong of an effect melatonin can have , even if the cows themselves manage to stay awake .
" melatonin is not the substance which induces sleep , " he said .
" it 's effective for telling the organism it 's night-time and as something to regulate the body clock .
of course if you 're a nocturnal animal , a rat or a fox , they still have this surge in melatonin and it tells them to wake up .
my point here is that melatonin can help adjust your sleep but i 'm not sure how good it is for making you sleep . "
lorne certainly is n't alone - the german health magazine " gute pillen , schlechte pillen " -lrb- good pills , bad pills -rrb- recently described this night milk as " nothing more than expensive placebos , " adding that the amount of melatonin is too small to be effective .
but that may be just part of the point .
if people expect this special milk to do the trick , perhaps a placebo effect is all they need to get a good night 's sleep .
" people think of a milky drink as a comfort and something that helps you sleep , and the thought that it contains melatonin as well , might be all part of the impression that it might do you good , " lorne added .
" i 'm not saying it 's not effective , i merely say let the buyer beware .
i 'm not so sure you can expect great things from melatonin anyway and whether it 's effective in this milk is another matter . "
author : jonathan gifford , munich editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swiss dairy farmers face uncertain future dairy farmers across europe have been protesting against falling milk prices for months .
the small-scale alpine farms of switzerland are among the producers hard hit by the dairy crisis .
-lrb- 06.10.2009 -rrb- milk prices up for debate - and protest - in brussels disgruntled dairy farmers drove tractors into brussels on monday and hurled eggs at the eu headquarters .
they ’ re trying to influence the eu agriculture ministers ' meeting on the milk market and get further concessions .
-lrb- 05.10.2009 -rrb- after germany , milk protest spills into the baltics about 1,000 people spilled into riga 's dome square on friday for splashes of unpasteurized milk as farmers rallied against the eu 's decision to raise milk quotas .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' night milk ' aims to help people sleep 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
' night milk ' aims to help people sleep -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de food and drink -pipe- 26.10.2010 ' night milk ' aims to help people sleep großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nacht-michkristalle received a patent earlier this month a munich company has just received a patent on " night milk crystals , " which are freeze-dried milk packets from cows with elevated levels of melatonin , a sleep-related hormone . many people know the frustrations of a sleepless night .
some listen to the radio , count sheep , or drink warm milk as a way to get to sleep .
one munich company , though , has just been awarded a patent for its melatonin-infused " night milk crystals . "
earlier this month , nacht-milchkristalle received its german patent , and continues to expand around europe , most recently to austria .
its product , a thin , freeze-dried nine-gram packet , which can then be added to any milk , has a retail price of 25 euros -lrb- $ 35 -rrb- for 16 packets .
the " night milk " has been available in germany for the past six months .
company representatives say that the milk contains naturally-induced elevated levels of melatonin , a hormone that can help with sleep .
melatonin is already available as an over-the-counter additive in the united states , but is more restricted in europe .
plus , it 's also used as an additive in some american canned drinks .
the american federal drug administration even started looking into the issue earlier this year .
company says red light is good for melatonin production bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the company says that it only milks its cows at night for maximum melatonin production " the cows need much light during the day and no light during the night , " said kai oppel , a company spokesperson .
" normally there is light in the cow shed also during the night .
and that 's why there 's less melatonin in the milk and in the blood .
so we installed lights and these lights are burning the whole day , but during the night we switch the lights off and have only red light .
we need red light because it 's long wave light which is about 650 nanometres and that 's a good light for melotonin production . "
the company adds that their cows are milked at midnight , when melatonin production is the highest .
" in all sheds milk is taken all the time and the consumer gets something like a mixture of different milks , " oppel said .
" so if you drink milk from the supermarket you have milk from 1 p.m. , from 6 p.m. , from 3 p.m. , the milk is mixed .
but we only take the night milk . "
some sleep scientists stay skeptical bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a german magazine called the night milk " nothing more than a placebo " jim lorne , the head of the sleep research center at loughbourough university in the united kingdom is worried how strong of an effect melatonin can have , even if the cows themselves manage to stay awake .
" melatonin is not the substance which induces sleep , " he said .
" it 's effective for telling the organism it 's night-time and as something to regulate the body clock .
of course if you 're a nocturnal animal , a rat or a fox , they still have this surge in melatonin and it tells them to wake up .
my point here is that melatonin can help adjust your sleep but i 'm not sure how good it is for making you sleep . "
lorne certainly is n't alone - the german health magazine " gute pillen , schlechte pillen " -lrb- good pills , bad pills -rrb- recently described this night milk as " nothing more than expensive placebos , " adding that the amount of melatonin is too small to be effective .
but that may be just part of the point .
if people expect this special milk to do the trick , perhaps a placebo effect is all they need to get a good night 's sleep .
" people think of a milky drink as a comfort and something that helps you sleep , and the thought that it contains melatonin as well , might be all part of the impression that it might do you good , " lorne added .
" i 'm not saying it 's not effective , i merely say let the buyer beware .
i 'm not so sure you can expect great things from melatonin anyway and whether it 's effective in this milk is another matter . "
author : jonathan gifford , munich editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swiss dairy farmers face uncertain future dairy farmers across europe have been protesting against falling milk prices for months .
the small-scale alpine farms of switzerland are among the producers hard hit by the dairy crisis .
-lrb- 06.10.2009 -rrb- milk prices up for debate - and protest - in brussels disgruntled dairy farmers drove tractors into brussels on monday and hurled eggs at the eu headquarters .
they ’ re trying to influence the eu agriculture ministers ' meeting on the milk market and get further concessions .
-lrb- 05.10.2009 -rrb- after germany , milk protest spills into the baltics about 1,000 people spilled into riga 's dome square on friday for splashes of unpasteurized milk as farmers rallied against the eu 's decision to raise milk quotas .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' night milk ' aims to help people sleep 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should private security firms be banned in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media japanese economy japan 's earthquake and tsunami are likely to affect the japanese economy in the coming weeks .
the world bank 's representative in washington , vikram nehru , believes it all depends on how well the japanese cope with the nculear issue libya air strikes china 's state media condemned military strikes on libya , saying they are a western grab for power .
gui hao , china expert at deutsche welle 's asia department , talks about the implications of the enhanced rhetoric march asia quiz quiz of the month digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.03.11 tibet exile government accepts dalai lama 's retirement gurkhas in britain fight for their rights dark times ahead for indian ' god-men ' podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should private security firms be banned in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 japan japan 's pm naoto kan has reshuffled his cabinet but expectations remain low .
paul kevenhoerster from muenster university on what the reshuffle means for kan 's democratic party of japan , particularly in terms of financial policy asia compact join us on facebook !
kazakhstan referendum parliament has approved a referendum to extend nursultan nazarbayev 's term for a third decade .
bhavna dave , from the school of oriental and african studies , on the 70-year-old president 's grip on power in kazakhstan january asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 17.01.11 call to lift sanctions against myanmar sparks controversy japanese pm reshuffles cabinet is us losing popularity among chinese ?
podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should private security firms be banned in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 reader response feedback our readers and asia compact listeners love to send in their views .
here 's a selection .
global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media militancy there have been three militant attacks on the pakistan navy in karachi in less than a week .
former law minister of pakistan , iqbal haider , admits that his country 's security establishment is double-minded about the taliban border clashes a bitter dispute over border areas flares up again between cambodia and thailand .
dw 's robert carmichael explains how asean tries to mediate between its two members listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 28.04.11 cambodia and thailand sign a ceasefire after days of border clashes militants in pakistan 's port city karachi have targetted navy again former us president carter ends his north korean tour podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile prison break about 475 prisoners , mostly taliban fighters , managed to break out of a jail in kandahar on monday .
thomas ruttig of the afghanistan analysis network believes that the afghan government is corrupt and incompetent to run its affairs april asia quiz quiz of the month justice hate crime twelve men suspected of attacking members of the ahmadiyah community face trial in indonesia .
newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
rail strikes halted in germany ahead of talks -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de strikes -pipe- 26.10.2010 rail strikes halted in germany ahead of talks großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : commuters faced disruption in the morning rush hour after delays and cancellations to train services on tuesday , rail passengers wo n't face any more strike action , for this week at least .
thousands of staff walked out in a dispute over pay imbalances . strikes over wage discrepancies on the german railways on tuesday have been called off , ahead of another round of negotiations on friday .
rail unions transnet and gdba said further stoppages were unlikely this week .
transport unions are calling for greater wage equality .
they say private operators pay their workers significantly less than the national operator deutsche bahn .
in total around 1,700 staff at deutsche bahn and other private rail companies walked out on tuesday , according to the unions .
the action , which began before the morning rush hour , came to an end at around 11a.m.
although the dispute centered on regional train operators , the strikes also affected long-distance services .
deutsche bahn said their free service hotline had been overwhelmed with calls .
" we hope that people have understood the message , " commented the head of transnet , alexander kirchner .
the union made clear that there would be more strikes , if there was no progress in talks between the unions and private rail companies later in the week .
regional strikes caused national disruption the strikes began in the states of north-rhine westphalia and bavaria on tuesday morning .
by 8 a.m. there were problems in almost every state in the country .
hub stations munich , frankfurt and cologne were particularly badly affected , with delays on both local and long-distance services .
deutsche bahn said it regretted that its services had been so hard hit by the strikes , particularly since the dispute centers on other companies .
" we 're astonished by the depth of interference in the public transport network , " said deutsche bahn spokesman ulrich homburg .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : long-distance and regional trains were affected rail unions are asking for pay rises from six of germany 's smaller regional rail operators .
the unions said that abellio , benex , keolis , veolia , hessische landesbahn and arriva paid staff as much as 20 percent less than the national operator paid its rail workers .
" the responsibility for this escalation lies clearly with the employers , " said a statement published on transnet 's website .
" we have been made an offer that would exacerbate the pay difference even further , and it was declared , at the same time , that this was the final offer . "
germany allocates regional services to private groups by tender , in line with european union law .
almost all of the country 's tracks belong to deutsche bahn , which other firms pay to use .
a spokesman for the independent operators said that major concessions had already been made in negotiations and that the firms " have no sympathy whatsoever for this strike . "
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , ap , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de rail delays hit germany as unions strike over pay dispute rail passengers in germany faced major delays on tuesday as transportation unions went on strike , calling for greater wage equality .
they say private operators pay significantly less than national operator deutsche bahn .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- rail strike shuts down belgium , disrupts international travel a 24-hour strike has shut down rail service in belgium and severely disrupted travel in northwestern europe .
disruptions are expected to last until tuesday morning .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- deutsche bahn faces rising competition on home tracks locomore , a small company backed by british and us investors , is planning to compete with deutsche bahn on the busy route between hamburg and cologne next year .
low fares and three trips daily each way are planned .
-lrb- 01.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic german rail workers strike to demand equal pay -lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live people and politics - the political magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media fukushima human error a report for the iaea points to human error as the cause of japan 's worst nuclear disaster .
biodiversity saving the rare saola wwf says the establishment of a nature reserve in vietnam has brought new survival hopes for saolas .
employment indecent concentration of wealth is making life more difficult for common people .
thetis mangahas speaks on the employment situation in asia politics the afghan president hamid karzai is in pakistan to talk about ending taliban insurgency .
shaun gregory speaks about how afghanistan and pakistan could reach an agreement on taliban insurgency listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 10.06.11 afghan president karzai is in pakistan for talks to end taliban insurgency poverty threatens the river gypsies of bangladesh vietnamese ' unicorns ' in danger podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile internet cyber attack the chinese government denies claims that a hacker in china was able to hack into google accounts .
security concerns the sipri yearbook 2011 highlights growing security concerns linked to natural resources .
listen to the interview © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deforestation has slowed since th 1990s , but continues at an alarming rate saving forests is topping the agenda of a un summit on biodiversity in japan .
as the meeting enters its final days , there are growing fears that the talks could bog down amid acrimony between poor and rich countries . delegates at the un convention on biological diversity meeting in nagoya , japan , have put sustainable forestry management at the forefront of their negotiations , as these habitats are home to thousands of the world 's plant and animal species , and can also help slow global warming .
the un food and agriculture organisation -lrb- fao -rrb- estimates that the world is currently losing some 13 million hectares -lrb- 32 million acres -rrb- of forest cover per year , mostly in tropical countries .
that is down from 16 million hectares per year in the 1990s , but activists say it is still too much .
as well as hosting habitats for animals , forests help regulate climate and rainfall and also prevent soil erosion , flooding and landslides . seeing redd bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saving species is the aim of the conference , is forestry the way to get there ?
on tuesday , talks focused specifically on the un-backed scheme called redd -lrb- reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation -rrb- .
under redd , wealthier nations pledge funds to protect forests in poorer countries , which agree to forego their right to exploit these areas for timber or development .
" our forests need immediate action , " said brazil 's environment minister , izabella teizeira .
redd has attracted funding pledges from some rich nations , but at this point it is mostly known for its troubled start .
participants have bickered over how to manage the cash , as well as procedural issues .
the one-day redd focus was aimed at giving the scheme a boost prior to major climate talks in mexico in late november .
negotiations on the pact have taken years and the un says nagoya needs to agree tougher targets to save the forests , reefs , rivers and wetlands that underpin livelihoods and economies .
" we are at a very pivotal time .
we are losing biodiversity on the planet at an alarming rate that can not go on or our children and our grandchildren will be that much poorer , " canada 's environment minister jim prentice told reuters news service .
however , even supporters of the scheme are voicing concerns about its potential abuse .
this week , the group greenpeace took papua new guinea to task for its efforts to gain redd funding , saying the country was more interested in cash and " not currently ready " to be involved .
the report also cited a lack of political leadership to implement the program properly .
" there has been little international interest in png as a responsible recipient of redd funding due to high levels of corruption , ' carbon cowboy ' scandals , and a lack of political leadership on redd , " it said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many new drugs are derived from nature and genetic resources are a contentious issue slowing momentum the nagoya conference is also burdened by the failures of past pledges in 2002 , nations agreed to halt biodiversity loss by 2010 – a target which all countries have failed to achieve .
the talks , which continue through to october 29 , aim to set new targets for protecting animal and plant species by 2020 .
biologists say many species are threatened with a global extinction crisis , and delegates are trying to agree on ways to spend some $ 4 billion -lrb- 2.8 billion euros -rrb- to save forests in developing countries .
yet on tuesday , meetings seemed in danger of bogging down , the momentum sapped - as with climate talks - on acrimonious issues pitting rich countries against poor ones .
brazil , for example , has threatened to make the issue of sharing the benefits of genetic resources – such as wild plants from rainforests , prized by biotech companies for making medicines – a deal-breaker for any overarching agreement encompassing the talks ' other goals .
author : jennifer abramsohn -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- twenty-five-year conservation effort pays off on germany 's north sea coast germany 's wadden sea national park , along the north sea coast , turned 25 this month .
as the world struggles with agreements to reverse biodiversity loss , the wadden sea shines as an example of transnational conservation .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- in economic rethink , experts call for putting price tag on nature amid growing evidence of the global loss of biodiversity and ecosystems , economists are pushing businesses and governments to factor the price of ecological destruction into their decision-making .
-lrb- 28.09.2010 -rrb- germany voices reservations about ecuador 's oil fund when ecuador first mooted the idea of foregoing massive oil reserves under the yasuni national park in exchange for donations worth half its value , berlin was on board .
but now the government appears reluctant to commit .
-lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- www-links biodiversity in pictures 9798 environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 16.06.11 -rrb- the living planet page development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
world in progress -lrb- 15.06.11 -rrb- world in progress page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback which team is your pick to win the german cup ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal - the magazine from brussels we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
' ugly ' dancing celebrated as art form in german contest -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de arts -pipe- 26.10.2010 ' ugly ' dancing celebrated as art form in german contest großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the ugly dance worldcup celebrated off-beat moves in normal dance competitions , it 's the best dancers who receive the award but at the ugly dance world cup in hamburg , the winners were those who made the biggest impact with their unconventional moves . the music playing at the terrace hill club in hamburg is not particularly appealing .
in fact , it is rather ugly .
and this makes it a perfect match to tonight 's theme : the ugly dance world cup . four young men in their early twenties are dancing on the stage - or just moving about strangely to tacky 90s party music , depending on how you see it .
one of them is jumping around and flailing his arms , out of sync with the music .
another is holding his hands bashfully over his crotch , while yet another just stands there , pretending to play a recorder . this is not something that most would describe as an artistic performance - but according to florian schueppel , the event 's manager , it is . " ugly dance is the art of unattractive dancing , " said schueppel .
" we are not looking for bad dancers , but people who do ugly dancing artfully . " the winner is the one who gets booed the most the four young men on the stage call themselves dezentiner -lrb- decent ones -rrb- and have travelled here from a small town 150 kilometers away .
they hope to win this competition and become world champions in ugly dancing .
they put a lot of effort into their application entry , which involved uploading a video of their dance onto youtube .
it made the top ten entries . tonight , the performing act that receives the most boos from the audience wins .
to increase their chances of coming first , dezentiner have developed a special style that ranges from " dancing wildly to standing around shyly , " according to group member michael beth , alias " shy guy . " the ugly dance world cup is mostly about having fun , but schueppel says it is also about creativity and art .
" the artistic part of it is doing what the audience does n't expect , " explained schueppel .
" movements that are unknown , being out of rhythm , mixing styles - there is a lot of room for ugliness there . " bildunterschrift : the terrace hill club in hamburg was packed with fans of unconventional moves as the competitors strutted their stuff ugly aesthetics however , the concept of celebrating what is not conventionally attractive is not so new .
german philosopher karl rosenkranz described the " aesthetic of ugliness " 150 years ago , claiming that ugliness should have its place in art . this evening 's show brings rosenkranz 's theory to life .
ten teams from germany , luxembourg and switzerland are competing for the title .
at around eleven the preliminary round is in full swing .
the chucklines of norris - two young women from luxembourg - come onto the stage .
they are wearing pink leggings , strange sweatbands and oversized silk blouses .
they throw themselves repeatedly on the floor , wave their legs about , jump up again and dance out of rhythm . role models for reluctant dancers ?
the two want their " ugliness " to be taken seriously , but their act seems to make a rather cute impression .
two male groups make it into the final round : inferno ragazzi , who show a lot of skin , and the dezentiner .
the latter manage to win the audience 's approval with their signature move , " shy dance . " with the cup in their hands , the group conveys its message to the dancers of this world : " try to dance in an ugly way .
make yourselves different from the masses , just like we did . " author : manfred goetzke -lrb- ew -rrb- editor : gavin blackburn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german hip-hop at the shanghai expo at the german expo pavilion in shanghai , one could easily see how hip-hop is transcending borders .
the pavilion called the " balancity " featured hip-hop during a month long program with graffiti , break-dance and music .
-lrb- 30.08.2010 -rrb- berlin dance festival explores human rights at berlin 's international dance festival , choreographers tackled issues like the islamic veil and the failures of the international community in upholding human rights .
the result was n't necessarily comfortable .
-lrb- 03.09.2010 -rrb- germans are falling in love with tango the germans may not be famous for passionate physical expression , but many are swooning for argentinean tango .
last year , it was added to unesco 's world heritage list and for 2010 it has been named dance of the year .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic impulse dance festival -lrb- 27.11.2007 -rrb- dance science – dancing with intelligence -lrb- 18.01.2010 -rrb- arts.21 # dance theater 's revolutionary – the death of pina bausch # 05.07.2009 feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' german pop ' homepage somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home europe turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 23.12.10 -rrb- © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.04.2011 home europe making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features wind power solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 31.03.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- feedback is the creation of new financial reforms reason enough to alter the lisbon treaty ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- feedback would you want to buy an electric car with a 600 kilometer range ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
puma loses millions in greek fraud scandal -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de crime -pipe- 26.10.2010 puma loses millions in greek fraud scandal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions of euros are missing at puma 's greek unit german sports-goods maker puma has accused its greek joint venture of financial irregularities .
cleaning up its greek business is expected to cost the group well over 100 million euros . europe 's second-biggest sporting goods maker , puma , is experiencing its very own greek financial crisis .
its two business partners in greece , brothers giorgos and antonios glou , allegedly deceived the company for years on end , withholding or misappropriating millions of euros from the group 's greek unit , puma hellas .
puma has n't published any details as to what happened exactly , but the company said it would launch civil and criminal proceedings against puma hellas ' former manager , its financial executive officer and the two glou brothers , who each owned 15 percent of the company .
" puma is the victim of systematic fraud and embezzlement , " a puma spokesperson said .
" it is suspected that the greek joint venture partner , along with members of the greek local management , committed a series of criminal acts . "
puma hellas was set up in 2005 .
puma retained a 70 percent share in the business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : puma chief jochen zeitz spoke of " irregularities " at the greek joint venture forced to write off 115 million euros puma said internal and external audits both revealed irregularities at its greek operations , but it did not explain how the glou brothers were able to steal money repeatedly without being noticed .
the affair has caused considerable damage to the company .
on monday puma announced it would write off up to 115 million euros -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- as a result of the alleged fraud .
" unfortunately , the discovery of irregularities committed by our greek joint venture partner is casting a shadow on our solid financial performance in the quarter , " said puma chief jochen zeitz .
the company released its latest results on tuesday .
third-quarter net profit climbed to 77.6 million euros after revenue rose 16.5 percent to 784.3 million euros .
puma is now forecasting sales growth in the mid-to-high single digits after previously predicting a rise in the low-to-mid single digits .
profit margins are also expected to widen , the group said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : puma sells sports goods worth millions of euros in greece damage control zeitz said the puma will not step out of the greek market , where the company generates turnover worth tens of millions of euros .
but the group has introduced measures to cope with the effects of the crisis .
it has appointed miguel andrade , its long-serving manager of french operations , as the new head of the greek unit .
a new internal control system specifically designed for puma hellas is also being tested .
puma said it has learned important lessons from the affair .
in future the group will not rely on its partners to the same extent anymore .
according to media reports , zeitz is planning to buy the remaining 30 percent of share in puma hellas .
author : nina haase -lrb- dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de luxury group recruits puma boss for sports expansion french luxury goods producer ppr , which owns gucci and yves saint laurent , bought german sports brand puma in 2007 .
now ppr wants puma 's unconventional ceo jochen zeitz to build a new sports and leisure empire .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- german national team jerseys are a hot item in a hot summer a young , captivating german soccer team competing in the world cup and a hot summer have been a huge boost for sportswear sales in germany .
the national black away jersey has sold out in much of the country .
-lrb- 09.07.2010 -rrb- china takes steps against the eu in trade row beijing has imposed a tariff on european steel products , such as nails and bolts , as a trade row with brussels escalates .
a day earlier , the eu had decided to extend a levy on the import of shoes from asia .
-lrb- 23.12.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live stock exchange today in history 1925 : publication of " mein kampf " dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- feedback is the creation of new financial reforms reason enough to alter the lisbon treaty ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback which team is your pick to win the german cup ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks playing hurt it 's match day 28 in the bundesliga but dw 's tired pundits wish it was all over already ...
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback which team is your pick to win the german cup ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 2 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from the world of soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
politics pressure mounting thai prime minister-elect yingluck shinawatra faces big challenges in office .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
caucasus violence explodes in the republic of dagestan amid militants ' efforts to create a muslim nation .
listen to the report .
bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with composer brett dean listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 2 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
politics pressure mounting thai prime minister-elect yingluck shinawatra faces big challenges in office .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 the korean conflict north korea opposes us-south korean military drill jitendra uttam , expert on east asia , talks about the ramifications of the crisis listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 26.11.10 situation still tense on korean peninsula india remembers victims of mumbai attacks world leaders try to save tigers podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online november asia quiz quiz of the month fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live kino we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 asia compact join us on facebook !
new afghan parliament afghan president hamid karzai yields to the pressure and agrees to inaugurate the new parliament .
bari hakim of deutsche welle 's afghan service says the new parliament will be stronger than the previous one korean peninsula north korean defectors want more active role s korea has agreed to hold high-level talks with the north , marking a breakthrough in the crisis .
january asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 25.01.11 afghan president karzai agrees to open the new parliament the fao warns of another food crisis indonesia 's president yudhoyono visits india podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home europe eco-loans in serbia permafrost in russia boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia climate change in the himalayas green industry park in india flood prevention in bangladesh hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- 9801 english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 14.07.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home europe eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 18.11.10 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live deutschland heute - das deutschlandmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 2 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- feedback would you want to buy an electric car with a 600 kilometer range ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 balochistan the baloch hal was blocked for carrying anti-pakistan material .
malik siraj akbar , baloch hal 's editor-in-chief talks about the current situation listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 18.11.10 english-language online newspaper from balochistan is blocked china has its eye on the world aviation market road safety in cambodia is lacking podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online november asia quiz quiz of the month security menace in india , attacks by the maoists are becoming almost a daily occurence .
rudrangshu mukherjee , historian and editor at kolkata 's english-language the telegraph , on the extent of the maoist threat © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback which team is your pick to win the german cup ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback which team is your pick to win the german cup ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the results gurus dw 's soccer pundits attempt to predict match day 13 's results while achieving spiritual nirvana .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio tour de danger two accidents involving media vehicles has some wondering if the tour de france is too dangerous .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de finance -pipe- 26.10.2010 european union agrees on new rules to control hedge fund managers großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hedge funds will have to conform to tighter rules representatives of the european parliament and eu member states have agreed on a new set of rules to control hedge funds and private equity firms operating in the eu , paving the way for the regulation to become law . the european union has agreed a deal to apply strict new legislative curbs on the hedge fund industry .
the eu is seeking to place financial markets on a tighter leash , and impose greater transparency on alternative investment funds .
some believe they contributed to the 2008 financial crash by destabilizing the markets .
" this directive is to enforce transparency , responsibility and surveillance , " the european commissioner responsible for market regulation , michel barnier said in a statement .
" it aims to ensure that there is no repeat of the financial crisis or any further massive payment from public funds to clean up the direct and indirect consequences . "
" even if the text is not perfect , it 's a good start , " said jean-paul gauzes , the eu rapporteur on the bill .
conflict between britain and france previous efforts to approve the legislation had been protracted by disagreements between britain , where 80 percent of the hedge fund industry is based , and france , which has been spearheading the calls for stricter control .
last week they settled a two-year-old conflict on who would be responsible for europe-wide licenses for foreign hedge funds to be traded within the eu .
it was agreed that non-eu hedge fund managers will only be able to obtain passports if they sign up to international standards against money laundering and tax evasion .
a new eu watchdog is due to be launched next year in paris to set standards for issuing the permits .
the european securities and markets agency will have the power to order national regulators to ban hedge fund activity if it poses a risk to national stability .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu commissioner michel barnier wants more transparency members of the european parliament are expected to vote on the reforms on november 11 , paving the way for the new regulation to come into force on january 1 .
eu member states will then have two years to incorporate the rules into their national legislation .
the content of the legislation will be closely monitored by the us government .
us treasury secretary timothy geithner has expressed fears about protectionist overtones in the french-led bid for industry regulation .
author : joanna impey -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu finance ministers rein in hedge funds hedge funds operating in europe will need to obtain a special license in order to be traded in eu markets .
the strict regulations were made possible after britain and france settled a two-year-old dispute .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- europe tightens the screws on hedge funds eu nations have overruled british opposition to tighter regulation of hedge funds , agreeing to strict new curbs on the trillion dollar industry .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- hedge fund speculators retreat as euro holds fast the euro dipped to a low value in may and june , but recently regained its lost value .
fears of the currency would collapse did not materialize , and hedge fund bets against it are now a fraction of what they were in may .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think hedge funds were to blame for the 2008 financial crash ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 26.10.2010 bayern munich knocks off bremen in german cup second round großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern 's schweinsteiger was the game 's star player in tuesday 's german cup soccer matches , bayern munich beat bremen 2-1 and schalke 04 knocked off fsv frankfurt 1-0 , while cologne got behind their freshly hired interim coach and gave him a win in his coaching debut . last season 's bundesliga champions bayern munich managed a late-game victory against werder bremen on tuesday , advancing them to the third round of the german cup .
bremen took an early lead with a goal from claudio pizarro , but bastian schweinsteiger equalized on 28 minutes .
the midfielder proved to be the star of the game , also scoring the spectacular winning shot from 30 meters in the 74th minute .
" i had to score that -lrb- second -rrb- goal , it 's as simple as that , " said schweinsteiger .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern coach louis van gaal said the game was a ' fantastic result ' bayern 's win is sure to uplift coach louis van gaal , who had to play the game without seven first-choice players .
he is due to get french star franck ribery back soon , and last year 's top performer arjen robben is set to return in january .
" i think this is a fantastic result .
we 've a lot of injured players , " said van gaal .
meanwhile schalke 04 struggled against second-division fsv frankfurt , but managed a 1-0 win thanks to jose manuel jurado 's long-range effort .
" i 'm satisfied that we have made the next round and also with the performance of the team .
we controlled the game and defended our lead well , " said schalke coach felix magath .
cologne 's birthday present as birthday presents for german soccer coaches go , a debut at the helm of a bundesliga side is about as good as it gets - which is why fc cologne 's new interim coach frank schaefer is unlikely to forget his 47th birthday .
in his first match as coach following the team 's release of former coach zvonimir soldo , schaefer coached cologne to a 3-0 victory over second division side tsv 1860 munich .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : koblenz pushed out the capital berlin 's team the two sides went into half time tied at 0-0 , but cologne came out for the second half hungry for goals .
the first came in the 58th minute , when martin lanig deflected a corner kick from lukas podolski into the net .
podolski set up milivoje novakovic 20 minutes later for the second goal , and took cologne 's third goal himself in the 83rd minute .
vfl wolfsburg ended fifth-league hopeful sc victoria hamburg 's chance of coming any further in the german cup with a convincing 3-1 victory .
wolfsburg went out in front early on thanks to a goal headed in by peter pekarik in the 17th minute .
there was still a chance for victoria hamburg until early in the second half , when two quick goals in the 52nd and 55th minutes from wolfsburg 's josue and marcel schaefer slammed the door shut .
hamburg did manage to get one goal back in the 71st minute from stephan rahn .
berlin knocked out after last year 's last place finish in the bundesliga dropped them down to the second division , hertha berlin has been cruising at the top of the second league .
but that was n't enough to save them from early elimination from the german cup , as berlin lost to koblenz 2-1 on the road .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cologne 's victory landed on interim coach schaefer 's birthday koblenz , currently in tenth place in the third division , struck first in the 59th minute on a goal from michael stahl .
berlin was still in contention until a foul in the penalty area by valeri domovchiyski gave koblenz 's marcus steegmann the chance for a penalty kick .
steegmann converted , clanging a blistering shot off the cross bar which bounced in for a goal .
after losing raffael in the 80th minute to a straight red card , berlin pulled back a late consolation goal in the 88th minute from adrian ramos .
one of the most exciting match-ups of the evening was between two second division clubs , spvgg greuther fuerth and fc augsburg .
at the end of 90 minutes , the two teams were tied at 1-1 .
in extra time , augsburg went ahead 2-1 in the first half , only to have greuther fuerth equalize three minutes after halftime .
but the final break went to augsburg , who scored twice in the last ten minute of extra time to take the match 4-2 and advance in the german cup .
the eight winners from tuesday 's matches will join the wednesday 's winners in the german cup round of 16 .
authors : matt zuvela , andrew bowen -lrb- reuters , afp , dpa -rrb- editor : andy valvur send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich ride their luck to top champions league group bayern munich won their latest champions league fixture , but only thanks to two own goals by romanian opponents cfr cluj .
while the bavarians are languishing mid-table in the bundesliga , they top their group in europe .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- borussia dortmund overcome cologne with late winner borussia dortmund overcame a late equalizer from cologne to snatch a 2-1 away win on friday night .
jakub blaszczykowski netted the first goal , with nuri sahin scoring the winner in injury time .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- bayern thrash bremen to win german cup bayern munich took the second step towards a historic treble on saturday night with an emphatic victory over 10-man werder bremen in the german cup final .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 9797 dw-tv europe live made in germany - the business magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home europe turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 30.12.10 -rrb- © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.11.2010 home europe eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 11.11.10 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home dossier solar power europe eco-loans in serbia permafrost in russia boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia climate change in the himalayas green industry park in india flood prevention in bangladesh hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- 9797 english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 21.07.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
australia awash it 's being described as a flood of biblical proportions with thousands of people and homes affected .
watch the video the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
battered city entire districts of brisbane have been devastated .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
australia awash it 's being described as a flood of biblical proportions with thousands of people and homes affected .
watch the video the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your view on renewable energies ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 crisis in pakistan prime minister gilani is in talks to save his government after the mqm left the ruling coalition .
political commentator ghazi salahuddin talks about reports that another party , the pml-q , is willing to prop up the government january asia quiz quiz of the month thailand the government has revoked the state of emergency in parts of southern thailand .
dw correspondent ron corben talks about bangkok 's policies in the deep south asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 03.01.11 the pakistani government loses majority in the parliament land rights activist 's death agitates the chinese a preview of the 2011 football asian cup podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- feedback is the creation of new financial reforms reason enough to alter the lisbon treaty ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- feedback is the creation of new financial reforms reason enough to alter the lisbon treaty ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
panini albums women 's soccer gets its first panini albums , forty years after the sticker-collecting hobby began .
watch the video education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
international relations great game as international troops withdraw from afghanistan , islamabad is concerned for the future .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - the business magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 26.10.2010 karzai does not bow to pressure over security firms ban großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan security officials inspect weapons collected from certain private security firms president hamid karzai is insisting that he will halt the operations of private security firms in afghanistan despite opposition from the international community . once again raising fears in the west that the afghan president is perhaps not a very reliable partner , hamid karzai said recently that he was adamant that the security firms should be banned . " the problem became clear to us five years ago , " he explained .
" we talked about it three and a half years ago with the united nations and ambassadors from the international community .
we made it clear that these companies were creating instability , letting bombs explode and harassing people . " some foreign firms , including xe services , which used to be called blackwater , have been stripped of their license . markus kaim from the german institute for international and security affairs has some understanding for the afghan position because " it means that the monopoly over the legitimate use of force will be returned to the state .
we would find it unacceptable for anyone apart from the police and the army to be allowed to use armed force in germany . " security firms operate in a legal vacuum there are reportedly some 50 private security firms in afghanistan and they employ around 40,000 people .
many are well-trained former soldiers who often earn more than they would in the regular army . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some international aid organizations might have to withdraw from afghanistan if security firms can not guard them the firms – whether afghan or foreign – do not really report to any institution and thus operate in a legal vacuum .
in the past , human rights violations and occasional deaths have gone unpunished .
discontent within the afghan population is growing by the day . so , karzai ’ s ban is being seen as an overture to the afghan people .
however , military expert assadullah walwagi doubts whether the government will be able to make good on its threat : " if all the security firms are shut down then who will replace these 40,000 people ? " he asks . " the afghan government will have to deploy soldiers .
but that could be problematic .
40,000 extra soldiers will cost money .
the employees of these private security firms get around 400 dollars a month . " dubious links with militants the international community , for its part , worries that many soldiers in the army are corrupt , badly trained and that some have dubious links with the taliban . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : certain afghan soldiers are accused of being corrupt and badly trained but the private security firms also have dubious links says kaim : " there are often influential politicians behind these local firms – or influential warlords in afghanistan 's case .
it is regrettable that the western money being invested in afghanistan sometimes lands up with people who are not the actual targets of the money or even with those one is in open conflict with . " recently , a report that was put to the us senate claimed that millions of us aid dollars were going to the insurgents as security firms have to bribe local stakeholders so that convoys can travel freely . the ban is supposed to come into effect in mid-december .
however , the afghan government has already made some concessions as a result of a wave of written protests .
firms that guard embassies and nato bases will be allowed to continue operating . author : martin gerner , nabila karimi-alekozai , waslat hasrat-nazimi editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- opinion : post-war development policy in afghanistan and other fragile states achieving long-term security and sustainable state-building in afghanistan after the military withdrawal will require smart development cooperation , says dr. jörn grävingholt .
he addresses key questions in this column .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- progress in afghanistan gets too little recognition , says westerwelle in an interview with dw-tv , german foreign minister guido westerwelle stresses that the international alliance has not failed in its mission in afghanistan .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should private security firms be banned in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 kazakhstan referendum parliament has approved a referendum to extend nursultan nazarbayev 's term for a third decade .
bhavna dave , from the school of oriental and african studies , on the 70-year-old president 's grip on power in kazakhstan asia compact join us on facebook !
indigo-airbus indian airline indigo has ordered 180 airbuses , the largest ever jet order in commercial aviation .
bhupendra chaubey from india 's tv channel cnn-ibn talks to dw about the huge expansion of the air industry january asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 14.01.11 eu silent on the sino-us currency spat kazakhstani parliament clears the way for president nazarbayev 's extended term microfinance has become a menace for many indians podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
' night milk ' aims to help people sleep -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de food and drink -pipe- 26.10.2010 ' night milk ' aims to help people sleep großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : nacht-michkristalle received a patent earlier this month a munich company has just received a patent on " night milk crystals , " which are freeze-dried milk packets from cows with elevated levels of melatonin , a sleep-related hormone . many people know the frustrations of a sleepless night .
some listen to the radio , count sheep , or drink warm milk as a way to get to sleep .
one munich company , though , has just been awarded a patent for its melatonin-infused " night milk crystals . "
earlier this month , nacht-milchkristalle received its german patent , and continues to expand around europe , most recently to austria .
its product , a thin , freeze-dried nine-gram packet , which can then be added to any milk , has a retail price of 25 euros -lrb- $ 35 -rrb- for 16 packets .
the " night milk " has been available in germany for the past six months .
company representatives say that the milk contains naturally-induced elevated levels of melatonin , a hormone that can help with sleep .
melatonin is already available as an over-the-counter additive in the united states , but is more restricted in europe .
plus , it 's also used as an additive in some american canned drinks .
the american federal drug administration even started looking into the issue earlier this year .
company says red light is good for melatonin production bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the company says that it only milks its cows at night for maximum melatonin production " the cows need much light during the day and no light during the night , " said kai oppel , a company spokesperson .
" normally there is light in the cow shed also during the night .
and that 's why there 's less melatonin in the milk and in the blood .
so we installed lights and these lights are burning the whole day , but during the night we switch the lights off and have only red light .
we need red light because it 's long wave light which is about 650 nanometres and that 's a good light for melotonin production . "
the company adds that their cows are milked at midnight , when melatonin production is the highest .
" in all sheds milk is taken all the time and the consumer gets something like a mixture of different milks , " oppel said .
" so if you drink milk from the supermarket you have milk from 1 p.m. , from 6 p.m. , from 3 p.m. , the milk is mixed .
but we only take the night milk . "
some sleep scientists stay skeptical bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a german magazine called the night milk " nothing more than a placebo " jim lorne , the head of the sleep research center at loughbourough university in the united kingdom is worried how strong of an effect melatonin can have , even if the cows themselves manage to stay awake .
" melatonin is not the substance which induces sleep , " he said .
" it 's effective for telling the organism it 's night-time and as something to regulate the body clock .
of course if you 're a nocturnal animal , a rat or a fox , they still have this surge in melatonin and it tells them to wake up .
my point here is that melatonin can help adjust your sleep but i 'm not sure how good it is for making you sleep . "
lorne certainly is n't alone - the german health magazine " gute pillen , schlechte pillen " -lrb- good pills , bad pills -rrb- recently described this night milk as " nothing more than expensive placebos , " adding that the amount of melatonin is too small to be effective .
but that may be just part of the point .
if people expect this special milk to do the trick , perhaps a placebo effect is all they need to get a good night 's sleep .
" people think of a milky drink as a comfort and something that helps you sleep , and the thought that it contains melatonin as well , might be all part of the impression that it might do you good , " lorne added .
" i 'm not saying it 's not effective , i merely say let the buyer beware .
i 'm not so sure you can expect great things from melatonin anyway and whether it 's effective in this milk is another matter . "
author : jonathan gifford , munich editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de swiss dairy farmers face uncertain future dairy farmers across europe have been protesting against falling milk prices for months .
the small-scale alpine farms of switzerland are among the producers hard hit by the dairy crisis .
-lrb- 06.10.2009 -rrb- milk prices up for debate - and protest - in brussels disgruntled dairy farmers drove tractors into brussels on monday and hurled eggs at the eu headquarters .
they ’ re trying to influence the eu agriculture ministers ' meeting on the milk market and get further concessions .
-lrb- 05.10.2009 -rrb- after germany , milk protest spills into the baltics about 1,000 people spilled into riga 's dome square on friday for splashes of unpasteurized milk as farmers rallied against the eu 's decision to raise milk quotas .
-lrb- 31.05.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' night milk ' aims to help people sleep 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de france -pipe- 26.10.2010 french minister backpedals on financial toll of ongoing protests großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : strikers in france continued to block the entrance to oil depots the ongoing strikes in france have n't affected its 2010 growth forecast , says the country 's economics minister , contradicting comments a day earlier when she said the protests were threatening france 's recovery . the french government backtracked on tuesday on comments made a day earlier that ongoing strikes in the country were threatening france 's recovery from the financial crisis . contradicting an earlier statement , economics minister christine lagarde said the protests over a controversial pension reform have not affected government growth forecasts for this year . " i don ’ t deny we 've had several days where there has definitely been an economic impact , but i don ’ t think it ’ s enough to change our growth forecast for the full year , " lagarde told france ’ s radio classique .
the french government said it expects gross domestic product to expand 1.5 percent in 2010 . still , new strike plans continue across france unabated .
on tuesday , students across france plan to hold a day of protests at their universities , while labor leaders have called for a ninth one-day stoppage for thursday . france being hurt bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lagarde backflipped on earlier comments about the french economy only a day earlier , lagarde had warned that the strikes , which are costing the french economy 200-400 million euros -lrb- $ 280-560 million -rrb- a day , were threatening france 's prosperity . the government estimates that the strikes have cost the country around three billion euros since they began on october 12 . " we should n't be weighing down this recovery with campaigns that are painful for the french economy and very painful for a certain number of small- and medium-sized businesses , " lagarde had said monday . she had also argued that the global publicity of violent protests had cost france dearly in its ability to draw international investors . " it 's the attractiveness of our territory that 's at stake when we see pictures like that , " she lamented , adding that strikes at refineries and fuel depots were also taking a toll . strikes ongoing bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have swept france for nearly two weeks president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely-contested bill to raise the age of early retirement from 60 to 62 could pass into law as soon as wednesday , after approval came from the senate on friday and the versions passed by the lower and upper houses of parliament were reconciled on monday . yet trade unions have called another strike for thursday , and ongoing protests around the country have triggered fuel shortages . in a tactical victory for sarkozy , workers at three of 12 refineries on strike have since voted to return to work .
police were able to clear protesters blocking all 219 fuel depots not attached to the nine refining sites still on strike . the union of independent petrol importers -lrb- uip -rrb- , however , said fuel supplies were still low , with one in three french filling stations undersupplied . in a possible sign of the strikes easing further , the fo union said it would recommend that its members end a garbage collection strike in marseille , where 10,000 metric tons -lrb- 11,000 short tons -rrb- of refuse remains uncollected . " the movement is not over but we 're taking into account a particular cleanliness situation , " said the fo 's elie-claude argy , who cited " security and sanitary " reasons for the decision . author : david levitz , darren mara -lrb- afp , dpa -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de french strikes enter new week as sarkozy 's approval rating hits new low france sees a fresh week of protests against government pension reforms as a new poll shows president nicolas sarkozy 's approval rating has hit an all-time low .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- french senate approves controversial pension reform french senators defied mass strikes , riots and fuel blockades on friday to pass president nicolas sarkozy 's fiercely contested bill to raise the retirement age from 60 to 62 .
unions have called for more strike action .
-lrb- 22.10.2010 -rrb- french police break up fuel depot blockades french police cleared protesters blockading fuel depots and skirmished with young demonstrators as the government warned of economic damage from the prolonged strikes .
-lrb- 20.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic french students protest against pension reform -lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- feedback should sarkozy go through with his pension reform ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : 125 years of the automobile the automobile at 125 : from humble birth to global dominance cooperation is the key to success in the auto sector germany 's changing attitudes towards the car german car sales , exports expected to take off in 2011 transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de transportation -pipe- 26.10.2010 new audi a2 electric car sets long-distance record großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the audi a2 arrived in berlin after a 600 kilometer trip german officials say that the prototype has set a new record on a single charge .
bmw and volkswagen have also said that they will sell their first electric cars within three years . on tuesday , a prototype of a new all-electric audi a2 car completed an early morning 600 kilometer -lrb- 372 miles -rrb- drive from munich to berlin on a single charge .
" if any journalists want to charge up their iphones , we still have some electricity left , " quipped driver mirko hannemann , 27 , just after completing the seven-hour journey .
company representatives say that the four-seater has a recommended speed of 130 kilometers per hour , and has many of the same features of other cars , including power steering , airbags , air-conditioning and even heated seats .
automobile manufacturers working on electric cars have been hampered in the past by their limited range compared to hybrid- or combustion-engine vehicles .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german economics minister rainer bruederle called the prototype a " technological leap forward " a ' leap forward ' at tuesday 's ceremony , rainer bruederle , germany 's economics minister , called the test drive a " world record . "
" before , electric cars could typically only go 60 or 70 kilometers before recharging , " he said at a press conference at the economy ministry in berlin , where the car arrived .
" this is a technological leap forward . "
while japanese researchers at the japan electric vehicle club have driven an electric car around a test track for 1,000 kilometers -lrb- 620 miles -rrb- , the companies behind the battery technology in the audi a2 , lekker energie and dbm energy , say their car has travelled the farthest distance as an " everyday " vehicle .
the german government and industry have been forging ahead with electric cars - in may , german chancellor angela merkel hosted an electric car summit in berlin , and has previously said that her government wants to have one million electric cars on the road by 2020 .
on the industry side , both bmw and volkswagen have announced that they will sell their first electric cars in 2013 .
currently , eight regions around germany are working on building 2,500 charging stations to support the 2,800 test vehicles .
" we are convinced that electric mobility works in everyday life , " said nicola bruening , the head of bmw 's office in berlin , in an interview with the german business magazine , wirtschaftswoche -lrb- business week -rrb- .
author : cyrus farivar -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opel announce new small car range to be made at eisenach the production of a new line of subcompact cars by manufacturer opel will take place in the eisenach plant in thuringia .
the contract for the production of ‘ junior ’ will see 90 million euros invested in eisenach .
-lrb- 23.09.2010 -rrb- chinese electric cars could soon plug into germany in germany – home to bmw , daimler and vw – energy company rwe plans to help a chinese company launch its electric cars .
the move could pressure german carmakers to ramp up mass production of their own electric vehicles .
-lrb- 17.09.2010 -rrb- german citizen wins american auto xprize of $ 5 million oliver kuttner 's 320 kilogram car gets 102 miles per gallon of fuel , or 43 kilometers per liter .
he and the edison2 team will be formally awarded the prize at a ceremony later today in washington , d.c. -lrb- 16.09.2010 -rrb- feedback would you want to buy an electric car with a 600 kilometer range ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live journey to mecca follow dw reporter ali almakhlafi on the hajj and get an inside view of the muslim pilgrimage .
ali 's journal : day 3 focus free at last focus on democracy : myanmar leader aung san suu kyi is free after seven years of house arrest .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : midterm elections in the us eu and us ' must work together , ' says diplomat obama seeks to mobilize disappointed voters foreign donations spark row ahead of us midterm elections shift to the right in midterm elections could affect us foreign policy politics -pipe- 26.10.2010 european companies back climate skeptics in us senate race , report says großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayer is accused of hypocrisy in its support for us senate candidates a report says the us subsidiaries of major european companies are giving money to the election campaigns of climate skeptics in the us senate race . the climate action network europe -lrb- can-e -rrb- , a network of ngos , has issued a report accusing major european companies of donating funds disproportionately to candidates in the us senate election who are known for their denial of climate change .
among the donors are chemical manufacturers bayer and basf , oil company bp , energy provider gdf / suez and steelmaker arcelormittal .
according to publicly available figures , the eight companies examined by can gave a total of $ 306,100 -lrb- 219,400 euros -rrb- to senate candidates , of which 78 percent went either to known climate change deniers or to senators who voted against the obama administration 's cap-and-trade legislation , seen by activists as a major contribution to the fight against climate change .
can europe 's senior policy advisor , tomas wyns , says this is " hypocrisy . "
" these are multinational companies with their headquarters in europe , " he points out , " and if you go to their websites , they say very good things on fighting climate change .
then you look at what 's happening in the united states senate race , and we see that a significant amount of their funding goes to senators who are blocking climate action , and even to senators who are outright deniers that climate change is happening and caused by humans . "
" against company policy " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : companies like basf and bayer have invested heavily in reducing greenhouse gases both basf and bayer told deutsche welle that their us subsidiaries were not allowed under us law to fund candidates directly .
but their employees and shareholders could form a political action committee -lrb- pac -rrb- , which raises money and distributes it as it sees fit .
bayer is the company whose pac gave the most senate donations .
they amounted to $ 108,100 of which $ 78,200 went to " blockers and deniers , " according to can .
but bayer spokesman rolf ackermann said the accusation that his company was systematically supporting climate change deniers was absurd .
" it would be against our corporate policy , which supports the fights against climate change , " he said .
he pointed to the billion euros bayer has spent over the last 30 months on climate-related research and to the company 's ambitious goals on emissions reduction .
ackermann argues that there are various reasons why a pac might support a candidate .
" this is about elections for the senate , where we have a host of issues which are relevant , " he argues .
" climate change is only one .
as a company , we would like every candidate to think about climate change the way we do , but unfortunately this is not the case . -lsb- the fact -rsb- that among those whom we support for other reasons there are some who think differently about climate change is purely coincidental . "
" iconic " deniers supported bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : climate skeptic blanche lincoln is one of the few democrats to get support but that does n't convince tomas wyns : " on the list there are iconic figures : they are the ones who are making a living out of climate denial .
it 's like saying : we are sponsoring david beckham , not because he can play good football but because he 's a good table-tennis player .
those are iconic figures : they have organized hearings in the senate ; they have come to copenhagen to block progress there ; it was their principle activity in the last years . "
wyns notes that the few democrats who received support were mostly prominent climate skeptics , including blanche lincoln , who broke the democratic majority for the obama proposals and who received the most money from the eight companies . wyns admits he does n't know why the companies support us politicians who seem not to believe in the policies they publicly espouse , but his report notes that the companies consistently oppose tougher environmental standards in europe on the grounds that they would make european companies less competitive , because of inaction on climate change in the rest of the world , and especially in the united states .
the report concludes , " what is clear now is that those same companies are financing key players in the us political arena responsible for this inaction . "
author : michael lawton editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de less hype , new law present obstacles for american voters overseas unlike the presidential election two years ago , democrats and republicans abroad find it more difficult to get americans to vote in the upcoming midterm elections .
and a new law makes the voting process even tougher .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- psychology of fighting climate change often ignored , experts say though much is known about climate change , efforts to fight it remain patchy .
one reason for it is psychological - climate change contradicts the way we perceive and tackle problems .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- climate talks end on mixed signal in bonn an interim session of un climate negotiations in bonn has healed some of the wounds opened at copenhagen , but the prospects of reaching a legally binding agreement by the end of this year seem bleak .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- feedback is the involvement of these european companies in the election hypocritical ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
australia awash it 's being described as a flood of biblical proportions with thousands of people and homes affected .
watch the video the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 forestry gets spotlight at un biodiversity talks großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deforestation has slowed since th 1990s , but continues at an alarming rate saving forests is topping the agenda of a un summit on biodiversity in japan .
as the meeting enters its final days , there are growing fears that the talks could bog down amid acrimony between poor and rich countries . delegates at the un convention on biological diversity meeting in nagoya , japan , have put sustainable forestry management at the forefront of their negotiations , as these habitats are home to thousands of the world 's plant and animal species , and can also help slow global warming .
the un food and agriculture organisation -lrb- fao -rrb- estimates that the world is currently losing some 13 million hectares -lrb- 32 million acres -rrb- of forest cover per year , mostly in tropical countries .
that is down from 16 million hectares per year in the 1990s , but activists say it is still too much .
as well as hosting habitats for animals , forests help regulate climate and rainfall and also prevent soil erosion , flooding and landslides . seeing redd bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : saving species is the aim of the conference , is forestry the way to get there ?
on tuesday , talks focused specifically on the un-backed scheme called redd -lrb- reducing emissions from deforestation and degradation -rrb- .
under redd , wealthier nations pledge funds to protect forests in poorer countries , which agree to forego their right to exploit these areas for timber or development .
" our forests need immediate action , " said brazil 's environment minister , izabella teizeira .
redd has attracted funding pledges from some rich nations , but at this point it is mostly known for its troubled start .
participants have bickered over how to manage the cash , as well as procedural issues .
the one-day redd focus was aimed at giving the scheme a boost prior to major climate talks in mexico in late november .
negotiations on the pact have taken years and the un says nagoya needs to agree tougher targets to save the forests , reefs , rivers and wetlands that underpin livelihoods and economies .
" we are at a very pivotal time .
we are losing biodiversity on the planet at an alarming rate that can not go on or our children and our grandchildren will be that much poorer , " canada 's environment minister jim prentice told reuters news service .
however , even supporters of the scheme are voicing concerns about its potential abuse .
this week , the group greenpeace took papua new guinea to task for its efforts to gain redd funding , saying the country was more interested in cash and " not currently ready " to be involved .
the report also cited a lack of political leadership to implement the program properly .
" there has been little international interest in png as a responsible recipient of redd funding due to high levels of corruption , ' carbon cowboy ' scandals , and a lack of political leadership on redd , " it said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many new drugs are derived from nature and genetic resources are a contentious issue slowing momentum the nagoya conference is also burdened by the failures of past pledges in 2002 , nations agreed to halt biodiversity loss by 2010 – a target which all countries have failed to achieve .
the talks , which continue through to october 29 , aim to set new targets for protecting animal and plant species by 2020 .
biologists say many species are threatened with a global extinction crisis , and delegates are trying to agree on ways to spend some $ 4 billion -lrb- 2.8 billion euros -rrb- to save forests in developing countries .
yet on tuesday , meetings seemed in danger of bogging down , the momentum sapped - as with climate talks - on acrimonious issues pitting rich countries against poor ones .
brazil , for example , has threatened to make the issue of sharing the benefits of genetic resources – such as wild plants from rainforests , prized by biotech companies for making medicines – a deal-breaker for any overarching agreement encompassing the talks ' other goals .
author : jennifer abramsohn -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- twenty-five-year conservation effort pays off on germany 's north sea coast germany 's wadden sea national park , along the north sea coast , turned 25 this month .
as the world struggles with agreements to reverse biodiversity loss , the wadden sea shines as an example of transnational conservation .
-lrb- 25.10.2010 -rrb- in economic rethink , experts call for putting price tag on nature amid growing evidence of the global loss of biodiversity and ecosystems , economists are pushing businesses and governments to factor the price of ecological destruction into their decision-making .
-lrb- 28.09.2010 -rrb- germany voices reservations about ecuador 's oil fund when ecuador first mooted the idea of foregoing massive oil reserves under the yasuni national park in exchange for donations worth half its value , berlin was on board .
but now the government appears reluctant to commit .
-lrb- 24.09.2010 -rrb- www-links biodiversity in pictures 9797 environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 21.07.11 -rrb- the living planet page development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
listen to world in progress -lrb- 20.07.11 -rrb- world in progress page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is investing millions into solar power china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door . there 's a green revolution going on in china .
the biggest consumer of energy already invests more in renewable energies than the us and europe put together and it is the fastest-growing market for hydropower and wind and solar energy . meanwhile , germany is the world market leader for green technologies .
at first glance , this would make the two nations ideal partners .
however , they are also competitors – especially in the field of photovoltaics .
last year , china 's market share grew by 40 percent whereas germany ’ s decreased by 15 percent .
this is because the quality of chinese products has improved considerably .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china 's energy needs are growing as the economy booms sven krug is from the stuttgart-based company sinosol , which buys solar products in china and sells them in europe .
he says china is fast catching up , with every second solar panel now being installed on a german roof coming from the people 's republic . he rejects the argument put forward by certain german manufacturers that chinese firms have unfair advantages .
" take a look at the german map and where most of the solar companies are .
they are in east germany where there were massive state subsidies so as to attract the companies .
chinese companies today have the same advantages that these german companies had a few years ago . " german companies have some openings however , this does not mean that german energy companies have no chance in china , he adds they can provide technology and they can get involved in the planning stages . bildunterschrift : china is the world 's biggest polluter the planning of solar parks for instance .
daniela bartscher-herold , a consultant based in munich , says there is one sector where german companies have a good opening : " in the field of technology-driven components and systems .
this is true for wind and solar energy , as well as for hydropower too . " however , even if german companies might have innovative technologies , the likelihood of them being awarded a contract when there are public tenders in china is still limited , says lawyer ji hailong : " a foreign company can take part in tenders .
but the reality is that chinese state companies usually get the contracts .
so joint ventures with a chinese partner are imperative . " cooperation is the way forward bartscher-herold agrees that cooperation is the only way forward for german companies and that " teams made up of good chinese networkers and good european or foreign experts who bring technical competence to the contract have to work together when they participate in tenders . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some of china 's lakes have suffered unduly because of heavy pollution a recent german government study found that by 2020 the turnover from green technologies will have doubled worldwide . this means that there could be enough for everybody in the end – benefitting not only suntech , yingli and goldwind from dynamic china but also solarworld , nordex and repower from strong , traditional germany . author : danhong zhang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- german environment minister blames china , us for climate stalemate german environment minister norbert roettgen has lashed out at the us and china , accusing them of thwarting a binding climate agreement at the recently concluded un summit in copenhagen .
-lrb- 26.12.2009 -rrb- china hosts climate meeting in tianjin the un ’ s new climate head christiana figueres has said china should be more flexible in global negotiations on climate change .
she spoke in tianjin where 3,000 experts have gathered to prepare for a meeting in mexico .
-lrb- 04.10.2010 -rrb- climate change increasing disasters in china a week after the earthquake in china , the total number of deaths has reached well over 2000 .
now , snow is hampering the rescue work .
experts are expecting more natural disasters as climate change progresses .
-lrb- 22.04.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
international relations great game as international troops withdraw from afghanistan , islamabad is concerned for the future .
international relations flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home europe turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 06.01.11 -rrb- © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home europe making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features wind power solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 07.04.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home europe eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 02.12.10 -rrb- © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cuban reforms ordinary cubans show mixed reactions to the government 's ground-breaking economic reforms .
listen to the report podcast series in this week 's generation change , meet a school shooting survivor who is fighting for gun control .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures us could prosecute assange for espionage , say legal experts wikileaks revelations shed light on beijing 's attitude to pyongyang wikileaks revelations on iran create problems for gulf states european press review : wikileaks ' disclosures iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
haiti unrest haiti is on edge as angry protesters block streets and set fires to contest the election result .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- feedback is the creation of new financial reforms reason enough to alter the lisbon treaty ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- feedback is the creation of new financial reforms reason enough to alter the lisbon treaty ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds kathryn stott listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- feedback is the creation of new financial reforms reason enough to alter the lisbon treaty ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures us could prosecute assange for espionage , say legal experts wikileaks revelations shed light on beijing 's attitude to pyongyang wikileaks revelations on iran create problems for gulf states european press review : wikileaks ' disclosures iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
bundeswehr how well-prepared will the new-look bundeswehr be for the challenges of the 21st century ?
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast series in this week 's generation change , meet a school shooting survivor who is fighting for gun control .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes transatlantic voices europe 's malaise libya shows again that the eu 's defense policy is a monkey , not an organ grinder on the world stage .
weapons deals uk ministers criticized for allowing weapons exports to african and middle eastern regimes .
listen to the report international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
violence in nigeria nigeria has been rocked once again by ethnic clashes between christians and muslims .
watch the video the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hungarians fear repeat of toxic industrial accident -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 26.10.2010 hungarians fear repeat of toxic industrial accident großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : while authorities guard against further disaster in kolontar , there may be danger elsewhere hungarian environmentalists are worried that there could be a repeat of the kolontar toxic waste spill that left nine people dead .
a decrepit plant in almasfuzito is an accident waiting to happen , they say . almasfuzito is a village some 80 kilometers -lrb- 50 miles -rrb- outside the hungarian capital , budapest , and it may well be the next victim of another toxic spill . slightly jittery officials recently accompanied a group of hand-picked western journalists through a former aluminum factory next to the main road in almasfuzito .
the plant , once a source of pride in communist eastern europe , was forced to close in the 1990s amid market reforms , and more than 1,000 people lost their jobs .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the desolate factory was once a source of pride the factory left behind a decrepit reservoir filled with toxic red sludge , a by-product of aluminum production .
it resembles that of the aluminum plant in western hungary , near the village of kolontar , which caused a catastrophe when some 800,000 cubic meters of the sludge flooded towns and villages , contaminating a region of 40 square kilometers with heavy metals and other chemicals .
martian landscape sandor pirik , the director of tata 's environment protection , the private firm responsible for the complex , has admitted that there are risks .
there could be an earthquake , he told deutsche welle : " we do n't know how the reservoirs will behave in such a situation . " the workers constantly monitor the reservoir , because flooding from the nearby danube river , one of europe 's main waterways , is another potential problem , pirik said .
on several occasions in the past , the rising water of the danube had reached the dam of the reservoir , which is located almost adjacent to the river .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : those looking after the site say much of the reservoir has solidified in an effort to convince visiting reporters that there was no reason for concern , tata 's environmental director bela farkas jumped onto what looked like a red martian landscape .
locals complain of leakage " at the plant where disaster struck the sludge was liquid .
here that 's not the case , " farkas said .
" this sludge is hard , that 's why i can even jump on it .
we also have covered most of the reservoir , while the plant in ajka , near kolontar , did n't even start to do that . " but downstream in budapest , the world wildlife fund -lrb- wwf -rrb- is not convinced .
" we do n't know how stable these reservoirs are , " said director gabor figeczky .
locals in almasfuzito had already complained about leakage , he said .
figeczky also pointed out that , due to the outdated technology used to build the reservoir so close to the river , an accident could endanger drinking water supplies . " in case of a flood , the water from the danube simply flows into the reservoir , " he said , adding that in case of leakage from the reservoir , the red sludge trickles into the river .
" if this red mud is still as alkaline as it was in the case of kolontar , it will surely kill lots of the fish and lots of the wildlife in the danube , and it will also threaten the drinking water supply from the danube . "
communist legacy bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : signs warn against toxic contamination at the site some worry about the risk of living near the reservoir while others , like almasfuzito mayor lukacs karansebesy , are bolstered by fond memories of the past , before the aluminum plant 's 1997 closure .
" from my childhood i grew up with the idea that this was the biggest aluminum plant in central and eastern europe , " the mayor said , looking across the hardened red sludge .
" we could not imagine that one day this would all be over .
the plant meant security for people .
like my father , i worked here .
its closure was a shock not only for me but for all the villagers of whom i am now the mayor . " little by little , the legacy of communist industrial policies is coming to light .
almasfuzito is not the only victim : the european union says it has identified several potentially hazardous chemical industry sites in the region .
villagers face an uncertain future as authorities and the international community ponder what steps to take to avoid yet another environmental disaster .
author : stefan bos , almasfuzito , hungary -lrb- db -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hungary awaits eu toxic cleanup experts as spill death toll rises hungary is awaiting the arrival of a team of eu pollution cleanup experts as the death toll from monday 's toxic spill reaches seven .
fears for the danube river have eased since the accident , with polution levels down .
-lrb- 09.10.2010 -rrb- hungary declares state of emergency over toxic spill hungary has declared a state of emergency in three counties over a toxic sludge spill that has killed at least four people and injured more than 100 others .
-lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- imf , eu suspend talks on emergency loan to hungary the imf and the eu have suspended a review of hungary 's existing credit line , saying budapest needs to do more to slash its deficit and improve fiscal conditions .
-lrb- 18.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you believe authorities are up to the task of monitoring such toxic material ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- feedback should reports released by wikileaks be allowed as evidence in cases of murder and abuse in iraq ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cuban reforms ordinary cubans show mixed reactions to the government 's ground-breaking economic reforms .
listen to the report podcast series in this week 's generation change , meet a school shooting survivor who is fighting for gun control .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de european union -pipe- 26.10.2010 eu foreign ministers set the stage for clash over financial regulations großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eu partners accused france and germany of trying to throw their weight around germany and france annoyed eu partners at pre-summit talks with plans to add tougher financial rules to the lisbon treaty .
however , agreement was reached on serbia 's progress to eu membership . a german and french bid to rewrite the european union 's hard-fought lisbon treaty sparked fresh criticism from fellow eu nations at a meeting of foreign ministers in luxembourg on monday .
the issue is expected to be a major bone of contention when eu leaders get together for a summit in brussels on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president nicolas sarkozy agreed a week ago to push for changes to the treaty to establish a permanent eurozone bailout system and strip countries that break euro rules of their voting rights .
but the call " leaves a bad taste " for other eu states that feel they are being told what to do , said luxembourg 's foreign minister , jean asselborn .
asselborn also expressed the fear that any move to rewrite the treaty would bring with it the " risk that we will be plunged back into months and years of navel-gazing " after the " decade " of angst leading up to lisbon .
belgian foreign minister steven vanackere , who chaired the talks in luxembourg , said countries were wary of opening up a pandora 's box of institutional reform .
" nobody around the table wants to open up the treaty and change it fundamentally , " vanackere told reporters .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : greek prime minister george papandreou has faced a backlash at home over the crisis germany holds the purse strings germany has said it will only make permanent its lion 's share contribution to a three-year fund of emergency loans for struggling eurozone countries if the eu treaty is changed .
otherwise it fears its constitutional court in karlsruhe will block the move .
" we want to protect our citizens ' currency and that means learning the lessons of the crisis , " said german foreign minister guido westerwelle .
" if we find ourselves back in the situation we experienced with greece in the spring , europe will move dangerously close to the brink , " he warned .
the 750-billion euro -lrb- $ 1 trillion -rrb- fund was established earlier this year with backing from the international monetary fund , after widespread fears that the greek debt crisis could spread to other member nations .
the franco-german proposal did receive limited support .
finland 's foreign minister alexander stubb said he was open to the idea , adding that " at the end of the day , as long as the rules are tight , i 'm happy . "
serbia teetering toward the eu most of the focus at the luxembourg meeting , however , fell on serbia , which eu foreign ministers allowed take a small step towards eventual membership - on condition that the country step up its efforts to confront its violent past .
serbia has gained support for its eu candidacy since agreeing in july to hold talks with its breakaway province kosovo .
in brussels , the foreign ministers agreed to pass on serbia 's membership bid to the eu 's executive arm , the european commission .
it is expected to closely examine serbia 's legal code , political standards and diplomacy record over the next 12-18 months to see whether the country is ready for eu accession .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : serbia gained support when it agreed to enter talks with kosovo but the ministers also stressed that " further steps will be taken when the council -lsb- of eu states -rsb- unanimously decides that full cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia -lrb- icty -rrb- exists . "
" serbia 's assistance in the key matter of the arrest of the two remaining fugitives , -lsb- indicted war criminals -rsb- ratko mladic and goran hadzic ... would be the most convincing proof of serbia 's efforts and cooperation with icty , " their joint declaration said .
former bosnian serb military commander ratko mladic is accused of masterminding the massacre of around 8,000 bosnian muslims in the eastern enclave of srebrenica in 1995 .
vimont to manage new eu foreign ministry also on monday , the eu 's high representative for foreign affairs and security policy , catherine aston , appointed the french ambassador to the us as her deputy .
pierre vimont , described as a " diplomat 's diplomat , " is to manage the day-to-day activities of the eu 's new diplomatic corps , the european external action service , which was established under the lisbon treaty in an effort to give the bloc a higher profile on the world stage .
" i promised to appoint the brightest and best , " ashton said in a statement , adding , " i have done just that . "
author : david levitz -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german finance minister defends euro stability pact compromise as chancellor angela merkel received criticism from her junior coalition partners on new rules to punish overspending eu states , finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said the compromise was the best that could be done .
-lrb- 24.10.2010 -rrb- eu ministers strike deal on principles of tighter budget rules european finance ministers in luxembourg have agreed on the principles of tighter budget rules to avoid a repeat of the greek debt crisis .
progress was made after germany and france thrashed out a deal of their own .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- serbian ultranationalists struggle against a changing homeland serbian ultranationalists who recently sparked football match riots in italy are trying to destabilize serbia , analysts say .
however , their voices are not representative of a country moving increasingly towards europe .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic franco-german proposal causes unrest among foreign ministers -lrb- 25.10.10 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 - the globalization program we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.05.2011 home europe boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features wind power solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 05.05.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases back to first page back 2/2 conflict zone investigations plagued by obstacles prosecutors are experiencing huge legal challenges relating to insufficient and contaminated evidence obtained from war zones , problems regarding proper jurisdiction , and of overcoming immunity deals given to defendants by us officials at the scene of the crime . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the maelstrom of violence left iraq a chaotic crime scene " one challenge for prosecutors is getting hold of usable evidence , " dex torricke-barton , an international security analyst and consultant at the united nations , told deutsche welle .
" iraq experienced a maelstrom of violence over the last few years , and identifying evidence for specific incidents can be very difficult . " " neither blackwater nor the united states government have a keen interest in airing dirty laundry in what has been an unpopular war , so preserving evidence and building a case for potential prosecution later on was never a high priority , " morris davis , executive director and counsel for the crimes of war project in washington , told deutsche welle .
jurisdiction , immunity undermining blackwater investigations as well as the problems arising from obtaining solid and credible evidence from chaotic war zones , the blackwater cases also suffer from falling into a murky grey area when it comes to jurisdiction and law . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater was contracted to the state department in iraq while contractors working for the defense department overseas are subject to criminal prosecution under the military extraterritorial jurisdiction act - a situation which has seen a number of operatives from other firms prosecuted for sexual assault and other violent crimes in iraq - blackwater was under contract from the state department .
there has yet to be any clarification that state department contractors fall under the same laws that govern defense department contractors . blackwater operatives are also often given immunity in exchange for information regarding cases they are involved in .
andrew moonen was granted immunity by a us embassy official in baghdad after the shooting of rhaeem khalif saadoun as were the blackwater guards involved in the nisour square massacre .
the immunity sanction has proved incredibly hard for us courts to overturn . the matter is further complicated by the fact that foreign contractors had immunity from prosecution under iraqi law until that was revoked in 2009 , meaning blackwater guards serving in iraq until last year were operating in a legal vacuum . " the real issue is establishing the legal jurisdiction for prosecutions , " said torricke-barton .
" there is a messy regulatory framework governing the legal status of us contractors , and in the case of blackwater , immunity deals were granted to some personnel by local us officials before the implications for future proceedings could be understood .
most cases against blackwater employees have n't gone to trial yet , and i would be surprised if they ever did as a result of these issues . " calls for responsibility and regulation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : contractors could face strict international rules in future with contractors from other nations still operating in iraq and former blackwater operatives still serving under the xe banner in afghanistan , many analysts are calling for nations and companies to take responsibility for their actions and for international regulations to prevent abuses happening again . " i believe that the iraq war and the hiring of these individuals who were not cleared through proper measures should make the parties - blackwater and state and defense departments - responsible because they did not do their own homework , " patricia degennaro , professor at new york university 's department of politics and a senior fellow at the world policy institute in new york , told deutsche welle . " they should through their own conscience and civil decency be required to change those policies , provide reparations and apologies to these individuals , their families and iraqis as well . " " there is a growing movement at the united nations to install a new global regulatory framework to govern how private security forces operate in warzones , " said torricke-barton . " in this case , states would have a duty under international law to develop the necessary procedures for investigating and prosecuting the actions of contractors .
the us traditionally has not reacted well to such proposals but if the furore over blackwater continues , it may be difficult for american diplomats to say no in the end . " author : nick amies editor : rob mudge back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series a german musician brings change with song and crowd funding .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series cornelius in liberia changes lives by talking about sex on the radio .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home europe eco-loans in serbia permafrost in russia boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia green industry park in india flood prevention in bangladesh hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features biomass geothermal wind power solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 07.07.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home europe boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia green industry park in india hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features biomass geothermal wind power solar power hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 02.06.11 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy iraq -pipe- 26.10.2010 wikileaks revelations unlikely to shore up collapsing blackwater cases 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : attempts to prosecute military contractors are proving futile newly leaked documents alleging the involvement of us private security firm blackwater in the unlawful killing of iraqi civilians are unlikely to lead to prosecutions , say experts , as current trials continue to collapse . with more than 400,000 classified us army documents going online in the latest mass release of files by the wikileaks website , the world has been given further disturbing insight into the war in iraq .
the leak , which followed a similar release of 70,000 secret files on the war in afghanistan in july , revealed in horrifying detail the civilian cost of the bloody conflict with details of abuse and murder by iraqi security forces and other groups .
among the latest leaked documents are accounts of hitherto undisclosed killings attributed to operatives of the us private security company blackwater , now known as xe services .
the controversial company , which has garnered a shady reputation for allegedly unregulated , mercenary activities as a us military contractor in iraq , is cited in 14 files which document incidents in which blackwater guards opened fire on civilians , killing 10 in total and wounding seven .
the wikileaks documents claim that in one-third of the cases where civilians were unlawfully killed , the blackwater operatives were protecting us diplomats as part of a $ 465-million -lrb- 331-million euros -rrb- state department contract when they opened fire .
the files allege that blackwater operatives repeatedly shot at civilian vehicles that came close to their convoys , and on one occasion even shot dead an ambulance driver as his vehicle sped toward the scene of a bomb attack .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater guards have been implicated in civilian deaths blackwater rose to notoriety with the 2007 shooting in baghdad 's nisour square which left 17 civilians dead and 18 wounded .
after the nisour massacre , the iraqi government demanded blackwater leave the country .
five blackwater guards involved in the nisour shooting were charged with murder back in the us , although a judge dismissed the case for prosecutorial misconduct in january this year .
the manslaughter and weapons charges were also dropped .
after leaving iraq , blackwater changed its named to xe services in february 2009 , saying the rebranding reflected " the change in company focus away from the business of providing private security . "
however , the central intelligence agency and state department have continued to award the company with contracts to protect their installations and personnel and xe now provides the majority of the 26,000 private security workers used by the us in afghanistan .
the company earned more than $ 1.5 billion from us government contracts in iraq after deploying in the wake of the 2003 invasion .
new revelations , old problems bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : blackwater founder erik prince has seen many cases collapse after reviewing the new revelations from wikileaks , the iraqi government has said that it will investigate whether blackwater was involved in the civilian deaths detailed in the recently leaked documents .
however , legal and security experts have grave doubts that any investigation based on the latest wikileaks reports alleging blackwater involvement in civilian deaths will lead to prosecutions .
given the state of play regarding previous cases , analysts believe blackwater has nothing to fear from the new revelations .
" first off , the publication of classified data is illegal , " dr. paul sullivan , professor of security studies at georgetown university in washington , told deutsche welle in reference to the evidence provided by wikileaks .
" also , the use of classified data obtained illegally through a chain of illegal actions leaves some complex questions for any judge .
in the us , a judge will decide what is admissible evidence and what is not .
this is far from a clear issue in the courts in the us . " cases collapsing under weight of legal complications cases arising from previous actions involving blackwater guards in iraq have been mired in complications arising from investigating incidents in combat zones which , in turn , have led to a number of cases collapsing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : often under fire , blackwater guards claim self-defense last week , andrew j. moonen , a blackwater employee accused of killing rhaeem khalif saadoun , the bodyguard of an iraqi vice president in 2006 , saw all the charges brought against him dropped after a four-year investigation . the us attorney 's office in seattle said that no indictment would be brought against moonen and stated that while there was " no question that the shooting ... was a tragic event , " lack of solid evidence convinced the government that it could not build a case .
moonen claimed that he had shot saadoun in self-defense after being confronted by the bodyguard . the collapse of moonen 's case follows the failure in september to convict two former blackwater guards accused of killing two afghan civilians .
a hung jury in the virginia murder trial led to the two blackwater employees being released after the guards said that they shot in self-defense when they believed they were facing an attack from insurgents , a claim also used by the five blackwater guards cleared in the nisour square case . continue reading for more on blackwater 's operations 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de private military firms likely to stay in iraq , afghanistan despite criticism president hamid karzai says he wants them out of afghanistan , while us president barack obama is planning to use them in iraq to supplant withdrawn us combat troops .
so how open to abuse are private military companies ? -lrb- 24.08.2010 -rrb- conflicting tales of germany 's mercenaries the revelations that private security firm blackwater was hired by the cia to track down and kill top-level members of al-qaida has prised open the lid on the shady business of 21st century soldiers of fortune .
-lrb- 24.10.2009 -rrb- german arms firm ends blackwater deal after tv report weapons manufacturer heckler & koch said it would end its relationship with blackwater after german media reported that the controversial us-run military firm was using its guns in iraq and afghanistan .
-lrb- 19.02.2008 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal -pipe- biogas in nepal -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 26.10.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.11.2010 home europe eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features hydropower energy -pipe- 26.10.2010 biogas plants improve life for rural families in nepal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : biogas is a healthier and greener option than cooking over an open fire around the world , 3.2 billion people lack access to modern methods of heating .
while cooking over open fires is damaging to health and to the environment , biogas provides a viable , sustainable alternative . many countries in the world lack the infrastructure needed to provide populations in remote regions with heat and light .
for half the world 's population , meals are cooked on an open fire fueled by wood , coal , dung , and other smoke-producing combustibles .
this not only adversely affects the health of rural populations , it also consumes large amounts of fuel and releases high levels of carbon dioxide . now , however , there is an alternative .
these days , biogas plants are providing a mainstream renewable energy solution in rural nepal , allowing people to produce methane by fermenting human and animal waste .
biogas units provide a cleaner and safer source of energy , enabling rural families to produce their own electricity , heat , and fertilizer .
the convenience factor bildunterschrift : biogas plants have even featured in work by thai art collective superflex one advantage of these plants is that they can be used in exactly the place they 're needed , thereby averting the need for extensive , costly power landlines .
they are easy to assemble , user-friendly , and depend on nothing more than fuel naturally supplied by domestic waste .
in developing countries , domestic biogas plants are used first and foremost to meet the immediate needs of rural populations in regions without infrastructure .
it 's an efficient principle , says andreas michel , energy expert with the german technical cooperation -lrb- gtz -rrb- .
" the dung produced by two or three cows per day is sufficient to make enought methane gas for five hours of cooking or light , " he explains .
in recent years , the gtz has helped fund the installaton of several hundred biogas plants in developing countries such as bolivia and rwanda .
the nations with the highest number of biogas plants are china , botswana and india .
according to gtz research , domestic biogas plants represent the optimal application of biogas production systems .
although larger plants can generate enough electricity to supply entire villages - and are usually installed within existing farms , where a steady supply of biomass can be guaranteed - the benefit of domestic plants in terms of cooking and heating are more significant .
the wwf is currently co-funding the installation of 7,500 biogas methane generators in individual households in nepal .
it estimates that each unit can help save an average 4.5 tonnes of firewood and therefore almost four tonnes of co2 emmissions per year .
as andreas michel explains , health improves as a result of less particulate matter in the indoor air .
a further benefit is that the slurry generated during production can be used as fertilizer for the fields .
the downsides bildunterschrift : a domestic biogas plant one crucial aspect is ensuring that all the methane generated is captured and burned .
a relatively potent greenhouse gas , methane has can be 25 times more powerful than carbon dioxide in its potential for global warming .
" this is why it is so important to prevent methane escaping into the atmosphere , " says martin hofstetter , an agricultural expert with greenpeace .
a further problem is that biogas units can not be installed just anywhere . not only do they cost between $ 300 and $ 1,200 depending on capacity and country - they are not even an option for impoverishd rural families who have neither land nor cattle , and therefore lack the requisite organic waste .
when biofuels damage food supplies bildunterschrift : meat and dairy production has an impact on climate change moreover , biogas production becomes counterproductive should it stop relying solely on domestic waste , and if fields hitherto used for food crops are converted for the purpose of growing biofuel crops .
" these days , there is a standoff in agriculture between the need to grow non-food biofuel crops , and food crops , " points out hofstetter .
the food-versus-fuel dilemna is exacerbated in some countries , such as germany , where subsidies and tariffs can lead to damaging effects .
these include rising food prices , rainforest destruction , and poor farmers being driven off their land by large companies that want to convert it to biofuel crops .
ultimately , biogas units make most sense when individual families ' interests are the first priority , rather than making a profit .
once a biogas plant has been installed , there is little expense because it costs nothing to fuel it .
enabling people in remote corners of the world to generate their own energy can help them change their lives .
author : po keung cheung -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de costs undermine carbon offset scheme in nepal carbon offset schemes are linking western consumers with nepali farmers , and helping both arrive at a better accommodation with nature .
but do they just amount to an expensive way to make a worthy donation ? -lrb- 05.10.2010 -rrb- refugee camps to use gas from human waste energy shortages and poor sanitation are two of the most serious problems in refugee camps .
now engineers say they can solve both problems by harvesting energy from human excrement .
-lrb- 13.08.2010 -rrb- helping poor regions create their own green energy industry the development of renewable energy is on the rise in developing nations , many of which no longer rely on technology from europe , but instead manufacture their own power plants .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think there are any downsides to biogas units ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv global 3000 green matters read more about environment and development issues on deutsche welle 's site .
click here stay in touch !
do n't want to miss an update ?
subscribe to our global ideas newsletter .
click to subscribe living planet listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 25.11.10 -rrb- the living planet page © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
