superbug arrives in british hospitals from india -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.08.2010 superbug arrives in british hospitals from india british scientists are warning of the dangers of a new superbug , known as ndm1 , against which most antibiotics are powerless .
infections that are impossible to treat could spread from person to person . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl1108 superbug uk 05 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german pop - the intersphere -pipe- german pop -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : german pop podcasts : dw presents the hottest bands hans unstern ja , panik alin coen band jupiter jones music -pipe- 11.08.2010 german pop - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic german pop no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
05 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaftsbilanz we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
05 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour a full dose of schumann and beethoven listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de women -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around 40,000 women and children flee to shelters yearly women 's shelters in germany fear a court ruling to grant unwed fathers custody will put abused women in greater danger .
others hailed the federal constitutional court 's decision as a victory for single fathers . germany 's women 's shelters have joined the country 's largest single parents ' organization in opposing increased rights for unmarried fathers .
until now , the fathers of children born out of wedlock in germany had no legally guaranteed custody rights .
mothers had the right to withhold joint custody , leaving the father to sue the mother for visitation rights .
but edith schwab , head of germany 's association of single mothers and fathers , says the federal constitutional court 's decision last week to grant custody rights to unwed fathers is bad news for single mothers , who themselves will now have to fight to keep unfit fathers from raising their children .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : now courts can award single fathers full custody " mothers who refuse to share custody have very , very good reasons for their decision - meaning that the potential for conflict between the parents is so great that the mother has rightly chosen to deny joint custody , " she said .
worse yet - according to heike herold , who works with an organization that coordinates women 's shelters across germany - in abuse scenarios , increasing fathers ' rights can undermine the safety of mother and child .
" it becomes problematic when there 's domestic violence , but also when you think of cases in which children are conceived by rape , " herold told deutsche welle .
" when you think of the legislature automatically giving these fathers custody , it becomes quite critical . "
a victory for single fathers on august 3 , germany 's constitutional court ruled that " the current legal situation excessively encroached on paternity rights for fathers of children born out of wedlock , because they could only take part in raising the child with the mother 's consent , " according to spokeswoman judith blohm .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the constitutional court ruled that fathers should have the same rights as mothers blohm said that until now " the fathers also did n't have the right to have a court determine what arrangement was in the best interest of the child . "
the case for increased rights was mounted by a father who had no way to prevent the mother of his child from moving to another city and taking the child with her .
the decision , which is expected to be drafted into law when the legislature returns from its summer break , was heralded as a victory for fathers ' rights .
thorsten nitz , an underground train driver , was one of the many fathers across germany who welcomed the decision .
nitz , who has been denied custody of his children since splitting up with his former partner , said he was " relieved when the ruling came , " adding , " it 's been overdue for years . "
harder to cut ties with abusive partners herold sees the flipside to this new right .
although she welcomes increased paternity rights in principle , she feels there needs to be a system in place to review fathers ' suitability before granting them joint custody .
the decision makes it much more difficult for unmarried women to cut off ties with abusive partners , herold said , adding that unmarried women who left abusive relationships " did n't have the problem that their partner , as the biological father of the child , necessarily had access to the child as part of his visitation and custody rights . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : increased fathers ' rights could threaten abused mothers ' anonymity under the new law , she says , a victim of abuse will " potentially have to mount a court case to protect herself and her children . "
" giving the father custody rights also means that the mother can not decide alone to move to another city or switch her child 's school , " herold added .
tracking down mothers through their children as it is , she said , visitation rights alone often give abusive fathers the opportunity to track down their child 's mother , forcing abused mothers to flee from one halfway home to the next .
herold added that , in cases of children born within wedlock , german courts already assume that contact to the father is nearly always in the child 's best interest .
she worries that more children will now have to live with abusive fathers .
" we know from experience that many family courts operate on the premise that joint custody is the new way of doing things .
they ask the parents to ‘ please settle their disputes in the interest of the child ' - but that does n't work when one side uses violence against the other , " she said . according to herold 's shelter coordination network , some 20,000 abused women seek shelter in halfway houses every year in germany - with another 20,000 children accompanying them .
germany 's federal family ministry estimates that a quarter of the country 's female population will be physically abused by a sexual partner .
author : david levitz editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's highest court strengthens unmarried fathers ' rights the german constitutional court decided on tuesday to give unmarried fathers the right to sue for joint custody of their children .
the new ruling brings germany in line with the european court of human rights .
-lrb- 03.08.2010 -rrb- ten eu countries move to streamline divorce process the eu has brought free movement of goods , services and relationships across borders .
but when those international couples divorce , those borders can make it even more complicated .
some eu nations want to change that .
-lrb- 25.03.2010 -rrb- germany says it will improve rights for single dads the german government has said it will make changes to its custody laws after the european court of human rights upheld an unmarried german father 's right to joint custody of his daughter .
-lrb- 04.12.2009 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links singing for change website roots n routes website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
05 dw-tv europe live kino - the german film magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 11.08.2010 books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pressler 's " malka mai " is based the memories of a holocaust survivor writer mirjam pressler believes books can help people come to terms with their circumstances - even if they ca n't change the world .
her works focus on struggling figures who may help readers see their lives differently . author mirjam pressler is a sharp observer who writes in a simple , precise style about characters who do n't have it easy in life . her celebrated debut novel " bitter chocolate " -lrb- 1980 -rrb- centered on a 15-year-old with an eating disorder .
the book was recognized with the oldenburg prize for children and youth , which proved to be just the first of many honors for the industrious author . pressler has written more than 40 books in the last 30 years , and she has also translated more than 300 from hebrew , english and dutch into german - including a critical edition of the diary of anne frank .
pressler 's own works have also been translated many times , including the 2001 all-ages title " malka mai " that was translated into 14 languages . the end of a childhood bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : malka 's mother must decide to leave her with farmers in the carpathian mountains it 's september , 1943 , and malka still has her own bed , her own clothes in the closet , new sandals , beautiful blond braids and enough to eat ; she even has her big sister minna and her mother , dr. mai . less than half of a year later , malka has learned " to hear nothing , see nothing , and to hole up inside herself . "
she has lost her home and the confidence that her mother would always be there .
she has been starved , completely shaved and can scarcely remember being the child of seven years old that she was just a few months ago . in early fall 1943 , germans began deporting citizens in lawoczne , a small town on the german-polish border .
doctor hanna mai and her two daughters , minna and malka , were forced to flee suddenly by foot across the carpathian mountains into hungary . along the way , seven-year-old malka becomes sick and catches a high fever .
her mother makes the agonizing decision to leave her with a family of farmers .
they assure her that they will bring malka to her once she recovers - after all , no one expects a child to stand out . but things do n't turn out as planned .
malka is betrayed , sent to a prison and then into the ghetto .
a nightmare begins at the fringes of a collapsing civilization .
in the end , though , malka survives and is even able to find her way back to her mother - although she has become practically a different person in the meantime . experienced history bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mirjam pressler won the german book prize in 2004 for her works today , malka mai lives in tel aviv .
she had recounted to mirjam pressler the parts of her story that she is able to remember .
having shared some of mai 's experiences , pressler was able to fill in the gaps knowingly and sensitively .
pressler is also jewish , just slightly younger than mai , and was raised by foster parents and in a boarding school . her narration treats more than just a child who must cast off her memories to survive ; the story also portrays a mother who nearly falls apart due to self-doubt and blame . mirjam pressler once said she does n't buy into the notion that books can change the world .
but , she said , the right book can move some people deeply . that may happen , for instance , when a book shows how someone can remain open to things getting better , or when a child learns through reading that he is n't responsible for circumstances he ca n't control . " malka mai " is just that kind of book . author : silke bartlick -lrb- gsw -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- everyone loves the little mole who never gave up it may be the most natural thing in the world , but werner holzwarth was one of the first to write a children 's book about it .
it came as a surprise to some that a story about shit became an international hit .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- german children 's books prove to be bestsellers abroad books for kids from germany have become a hit on the international book market .
storybook heroes like those from cornelia funke or michael ende are beloved by young readers from the us to china or korea .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german children 's publishers take traditional route to success books for young people have resisted the economic crisis .
the youth segment in publishing shows stable growth - even though the majority of children 's and youth publishers are refusing to go digital .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- 05 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' german pop ' homepage somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought 05 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links singing for change website roots n routes website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 dw-tv europe live kultur.21 - das kulturmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from ermany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download champions ' single ' castles in the sand ' www-links check out benyamin nuss ' official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
afghanistan german soldiers use humanitarian methods to gain the population 's support in char dara district .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 - das globalisierungsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1997 : jan ullrich wins the tour de france dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - das wirtschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio bundesliga near the end dw sports pundits have just two weeks left to hit the jackpot with their picks .
here goes nothing .
rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a berlin designer prompts thought about waste by turning trash , like used teabags , into treasures .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tracking the ' ice island ' that broke off greenland -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 11.08.2010 tracking the ' ice island ' that broke off greenland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petermann glacier is constantly changing a 260-square kilometer ice sheet has split off from greenland 's coast and may threaten shipping lanes and oil platforms .
deutsche welle speaks with the canadian ice service researcher who first spotted the " ice island . " deutsche welle talks with trudy wohlleben , the researcher with the canadian ice service who discovered a 260-square kilometer -lrb- 100 square mile -rrb- ice island that has torn away from petermann glacier on greenland 's northwest coast .
it 's feared the massive floating ice sheet could enter shipping lanes or run into oil platforms while drifting south .
deutsche welle : what do you do as an ice forecaster ?
trudy wohlleben : i spend a lot of time analyzing satellite imagery for ice to create charts monitoring ice concentration , type and thickness .
what have you discovered in greenland ?
on the northwest coast there is a glacier , petermann glacier , which is known for calving off large tabular icebergs or ice islands .
we 've been monitoring this glacier for a while expecting a large piece to fall off , and on august 5 a large section actually did break off - much larger than we actually anticipated .
it was about 30 kilometers -lrb- 18.6 miles -rrb- long and 10 kilometers wide .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these nasa photos , taken a week apart , show the ice sheet splitting what is the significance of this ?
usually what happens is once they enter the nares strait they drift southwards with the currents - usually it fragments when it comes south - but the larger pieces can eventually make their way into the shipping lanes off the labrador coast in newfoundland .
even though it takes a year or two to descend that far , we like to put tracking beacons on the large pieces and monitor them for hazards to shipping and to oil platforms .
not all satellites can see through clouds , so sometimes on cloudy days you 'll lose the position .
what we like to do is put a beacon on the ice island ; it sends a signal that satellites can track so we can know its position at all times .
that way we can monitor the rate of drift of the ice island , the speed and its location .
given that ice island calving is a relatively common phenomenon , can you explain why people are so interested in this instance ?
calving of ice islands is indeed quite average .
i think what 's special about this instance is just that it 's so much bigger than any other one that 's calved .
the last large one of this size was back in the ' 60s .
so i think it 's just the sheer size of this ice island which has everyone so excited - and perhaps also that it 's all in one enormous piece .
what exactly did you see when you realized that the ice island had broken off ?
well , it looks like a big blue line through a nice , white glacier on the satellite image .
we essentially then realized that a section has floated off into the ocean .
yeah , it 's quite dramatic if you look at the pictures .
how did you feel when you initially saw the pictures ?
sure , i was excited .
i knew the sea ice community would be excited ; i did n't realize the whole world would get so excited about it !
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the ice island has broken off from the bulk of the glacier what do you think this could mean for the shipping industry and business ?
it 's hard to say .
a similar calving event occurred in 2008 , albeit much , much smaller .
in that case , it broke in july , and it took about a year for it to come down the coast of baffin island .
near frobisher bay - at the south end of baffin island , which is the northern tip of labrador - it broke into hundreds of pieces and then started coming down with the main iceberg pack down the labrador coast .
in that case , the pieces were the size of normal icebergs coming down the coast .
i think this instance , though , because so much more ice has broken off , will produce larger chunks of ice that will come down into the shipping lanes where the oil platforms are .
the danger is - once they get to where the oil platforms are - if the icebergs are too big then the normal methods used to break up the ice as it approaches the platform will have a lot more difficulties .
is it possible that this ice mass will ' ground ' and stay wherever it hits land for decades ?
it is a possibility .
the depth of the ice island is about 55 meters -lrb- 180.4 feet -rrb- .
these things are so deep that they tend to drift not with the wind , but with the currents deeper down .
there is always a chance it will survive and make it all the way south , as the one in 2008 did .
in our profession , this will most certainly mean additional work tracking the ice island and also the fragments as it starts to fracture .
but next year we would have to prepare either warnings or watches for shipping lanes downstream and for the oil platforms .
does this tell us anything about climate change ?
this is a really tricky question .
there are so many factors at work , which makes it hard to link these events to any one specific cause .
there 's the ocean circulation underneath the floating tongue of the glacier and the heat content of the ocean .
and then there are the katabatic winds coming off the greenland ice cap .
all these things play a role , and i am in no place to speculate on any one thing that it could be attributed to .
what does something like this look like ?
if you were standing in the middle of it , you would n't really know you were even on a floating piece of ice .
if you were on a ship , it would look like a big wall of ice rising out of the ocean .
interview : saroja coelho / glb editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de massive ice sheet breaks away from greenland glacier researchers say a floating ice sheet more than four times the size of new york 's manhattan island could eventually enter shipping lanes or run into oil platforms while drifting south .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- a first look inside iceland 's ash wasteland for most europeans , iceland 's volcanic eruption is a bad memory .
but the effects continue to be felt in iceland , where deutsche welle caught a glimpse of a once pristine national park , which is now an ash wasteland .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- climate change already visible on greenland many scientists and governments are talking about what will happen once climate change begins to occur , but on the great island of greenland global warming is n't just a future problem - it 's happening now .
-lrb- 14.08.2009 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1983 : margaret thatcher is re-elected dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1989 : herrhausen murdered © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week finance and flowers : listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1937 : zeppelin explodes dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
nicola lemken - plowing a successful furrow audi and the dtm , part 4 - big race , big business greece - a year with the financial rescue package handmade in germany : belts for a lifetime © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1917 : mata hari executed © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1949 : election of the first federal president © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live politics russian prime minister vladimir putin appears determined to get back at the helm again as president .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a former street child in indonesia gives back to kids in need .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 11.08.2010 books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pressler 's " malka mai " is based the memories of a holocaust survivor writer mirjam pressler believes books can help people come to terms with their circumstances - even if they ca n't change the world .
her works focus on struggling figures who may help readers see their lives differently . author mirjam pressler is a sharp observer who writes in a simple , precise style about characters who do n't have it easy in life . her celebrated debut novel " bitter chocolate " -lrb- 1980 -rrb- centered on a 15-year-old with an eating disorder .
the book was recognized with the oldenburg prize for children and youth , which proved to be just the first of many honors for the industrious author . pressler has written more than 40 books in the last 30 years , and she has also translated more than 300 from hebrew , english and dutch into german - including a critical edition of the diary of anne frank .
pressler 's own works have also been translated many times , including the 2001 all-ages title " malka mai " that was translated into 14 languages . the end of a childhood bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : malka 's mother must decide to leave her with farmers in the carpathian mountains it 's september , 1943 , and malka still has her own bed , her own clothes in the closet , new sandals , beautiful blond braids and enough to eat ; she even has her big sister minna and her mother , dr. mai . less than half of a year later , malka has learned " to hear nothing , see nothing , and to hole up inside herself . "
she has lost her home and the confidence that her mother would always be there .
she has been starved , completely shaved and can scarcely remember being the child of seven years old that she was just a few months ago . in early fall 1943 , germans began deporting citizens in lawoczne , a small town on the german-polish border .
doctor hanna mai and her two daughters , minna and malka , were forced to flee suddenly by foot across the carpathian mountains into hungary . along the way , seven-year-old malka becomes sick and catches a high fever .
her mother makes the agonizing decision to leave her with a family of farmers .
they assure her that they will bring malka to her once she recovers - after all , no one expects a child to stand out . but things do n't turn out as planned .
malka is betrayed , sent to a prison and then into the ghetto .
a nightmare begins at the fringes of a collapsing civilization .
in the end , though , malka survives and is even able to find her way back to her mother - although she has become practically a different person in the meantime . experienced history bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mirjam pressler won the german book prize in 2004 for her works today , malka mai lives in tel aviv .
she had recounted to mirjam pressler the parts of her story that she is able to remember .
having shared some of mai 's experiences , pressler was able to fill in the gaps knowingly and sensitively .
pressler is also jewish , just slightly younger than mai , and was raised by foster parents and in a boarding school . her narration treats more than just a child who must cast off her memories to survive ; the story also portrays a mother who nearly falls apart due to self-doubt and blame . mirjam pressler once said she does n't buy into the notion that books can change the world .
but , she said , the right book can move some people deeply . that may happen , for instance , when a book shows how someone can remain open to things getting better , or when a child learns through reading that he is n't responsible for circumstances he ca n't control . " malka mai " is just that kind of book . author : silke bartlick -lrb- gsw -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- everyone loves the little mole who never gave up it may be the most natural thing in the world , but werner holzwarth was one of the first to write a children 's book about it .
it came as a surprise to some that a story about shit became an international hit .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- german children 's books prove to be bestsellers abroad books for kids from germany have become a hit on the international book market .
storybook heroes like those from cornelia funke or michael ende are beloved by young readers from the us to china or korea .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german children 's publishers take traditional route to success books for young people have resisted the economic crisis .
the youth segment in publishing shows stable growth - even though the majority of children 's and youth publishers are refusing to go digital .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
oxford , britain schwerin , germany las palmas , spain reykjavik , iceland darmstadt , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 11.08.2010 books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pressler 's " malka mai " is based the memories of a holocaust survivor writer mirjam pressler believes books can help people come to terms with their circumstances - even if they ca n't change the world .
her works focus on struggling figures who may help readers see their lives differently . author mirjam pressler is a sharp observer who writes in a simple , precise style about characters who do n't have it easy in life . her celebrated debut novel " bitter chocolate " -lrb- 1980 -rrb- centered on a 15-year-old with an eating disorder .
the book was recognized with the oldenburg prize for children and youth , which proved to be just the first of many honors for the industrious author . pressler has written more than 40 books in the last 30 years , and she has also translated more than 300 from hebrew , english and dutch into german - including a critical edition of the diary of anne frank .
pressler 's own works have also been translated many times , including the 2001 all-ages title " malka mai " that was translated into 14 languages . the end of a childhood bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : malka 's mother must decide to leave her with farmers in the carpathian mountains it 's september , 1943 , and malka still has her own bed , her own clothes in the closet , new sandals , beautiful blond braids and enough to eat ; she even has her big sister minna and her mother , dr. mai . less than half of a year later , malka has learned " to hear nothing , see nothing , and to hole up inside herself . "
she has lost her home and the confidence that her mother would always be there .
she has been starved , completely shaved and can scarcely remember being the child of seven years old that she was just a few months ago . in early fall 1943 , germans began deporting citizens in lawoczne , a small town on the german-polish border .
doctor hanna mai and her two daughters , minna and malka , were forced to flee suddenly by foot across the carpathian mountains into hungary . along the way , seven-year-old malka becomes sick and catches a high fever .
her mother makes the agonizing decision to leave her with a family of farmers .
they assure her that they will bring malka to her once she recovers - after all , no one expects a child to stand out . but things do n't turn out as planned .
malka is betrayed , sent to a prison and then into the ghetto .
a nightmare begins at the fringes of a collapsing civilization .
in the end , though , malka survives and is even able to find her way back to her mother - although she has become practically a different person in the meantime . experienced history bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mirjam pressler won the german book prize in 2004 for her works today , malka mai lives in tel aviv .
she had recounted to mirjam pressler the parts of her story that she is able to remember .
having shared some of mai 's experiences , pressler was able to fill in the gaps knowingly and sensitively .
pressler is also jewish , just slightly younger than mai , and was raised by foster parents and in a boarding school . her narration treats more than just a child who must cast off her memories to survive ; the story also portrays a mother who nearly falls apart due to self-doubt and blame . mirjam pressler once said she does n't buy into the notion that books can change the world .
but , she said , the right book can move some people deeply . that may happen , for instance , when a book shows how someone can remain open to things getting better , or when a child learns through reading that he is n't responsible for circumstances he ca n't control . " malka mai " is just that kind of book . author : silke bartlick -lrb- gsw -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- everyone loves the little mole who never gave up it may be the most natural thing in the world , but werner holzwarth was one of the first to write a children 's book about it .
it came as a surprise to some that a story about shit became an international hit .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- german children 's books prove to be bestsellers abroad books for kids from germany have become a hit on the international book market .
storybook heroes like those from cornelia funke or michael ende are beloved by young readers from the us to china or korea .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german children 's publishers take traditional route to success books for young people have resisted the economic crisis .
the youth segment in publishing shows stable growth - even though the majority of children 's and youth publishers are refusing to go digital .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 11.08.2010 books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pressler 's " malka mai " is based the memories of a holocaust survivor writer mirjam pressler believes books can help people come to terms with their circumstances - even if they ca n't change the world .
her works focus on struggling figures who may help readers see their lives differently . author mirjam pressler is a sharp observer who writes in a simple , precise style about characters who do n't have it easy in life . her celebrated debut novel " bitter chocolate " -lrb- 1980 -rrb- centered on a 15-year-old with an eating disorder .
the book was recognized with the oldenburg prize for children and youth , which proved to be just the first of many honors for the industrious author . pressler has written more than 40 books in the last 30 years , and she has also translated more than 300 from hebrew , english and dutch into german - including a critical edition of the diary of anne frank .
pressler 's own works have also been translated many times , including the 2001 all-ages title " malka mai " that was translated into 14 languages . the end of a childhood bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : malka 's mother must decide to leave her with farmers in the carpathian mountains it 's september , 1943 , and malka still has her own bed , her own clothes in the closet , new sandals , beautiful blond braids and enough to eat ; she even has her big sister minna and her mother , dr. mai . less than half of a year later , malka has learned " to hear nothing , see nothing , and to hole up inside herself . "
she has lost her home and the confidence that her mother would always be there .
she has been starved , completely shaved and can scarcely remember being the child of seven years old that she was just a few months ago . in early fall 1943 , germans began deporting citizens in lawoczne , a small town on the german-polish border .
doctor hanna mai and her two daughters , minna and malka , were forced to flee suddenly by foot across the carpathian mountains into hungary . along the way , seven-year-old malka becomes sick and catches a high fever .
her mother makes the agonizing decision to leave her with a family of farmers .
they assure her that they will bring malka to her once she recovers - after all , no one expects a child to stand out . but things do n't turn out as planned .
malka is betrayed , sent to a prison and then into the ghetto .
a nightmare begins at the fringes of a collapsing civilization .
in the end , though , malka survives and is even able to find her way back to her mother - although she has become practically a different person in the meantime . experienced history bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mirjam pressler won the german book prize in 2004 for her works today , malka mai lives in tel aviv .
she had recounted to mirjam pressler the parts of her story that she is able to remember .
having shared some of mai 's experiences , pressler was able to fill in the gaps knowingly and sensitively .
pressler is also jewish , just slightly younger than mai , and was raised by foster parents and in a boarding school . her narration treats more than just a child who must cast off her memories to survive ; the story also portrays a mother who nearly falls apart due to self-doubt and blame . mirjam pressler once said she does n't buy into the notion that books can change the world .
but , she said , the right book can move some people deeply . that may happen , for instance , when a book shows how someone can remain open to things getting better , or when a child learns through reading that he is n't responsible for circumstances he ca n't control . " malka mai " is just that kind of book . author : silke bartlick -lrb- gsw -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- everyone loves the little mole who never gave up it may be the most natural thing in the world , but werner holzwarth was one of the first to write a children 's book about it .
it came as a surprise to some that a story about shit became an international hit .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- german children 's books prove to be bestsellers abroad books for kids from germany have become a hit on the international book market .
storybook heroes like those from cornelia funke or michael ende are beloved by young readers from the us to china or korea .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german children 's publishers take traditional route to success books for young people have resisted the economic crisis .
the youth segment in publishing shows stable growth - even though the majority of children 's and youth publishers are refusing to go digital .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
bern , switzerland freiburg , germany jerez de la frontera , spain oxford , britain bordeaux , france dw-tv : euromaxx cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
swedish crispbread saddle of rabbit with asparagus risotto rutabaga soup dumplings with meat filling sweet-savory pheasant from leeds dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 01.10.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1949 : founding of the gdr © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week liquid assets : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1982 : argentinians land in the falklands © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1962 : premier of jules et jim © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with clarinettist martin fröst listen live stock exchange today in history 1986 : ludwig museum opened in cologne © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1989 : herrhausen murdered © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions bundesliga picks dw 's experts consult the football stars in a bid to predict the bundesliga match day eight results .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks playing hurt it 's match day 28 in the bundesliga but dw 's tired pundits wish it was all over already ...
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions hands down dw pundits hope a palm and 50 cents are all it takes to get the scores right on match day 14 .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg cantona 's revolution former footballer , now actor eric cantona wants to start a revolution targetting the banks .
listen to the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report new feature week three picks dw sports sizes up the week three match-ups in the bundesliga .
and hopes to pick a couple right .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds remembering the late dame joan sutherland listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
world bank steps up cooperation for development in bulgaria -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de development aid -pipe- 11.08.2010 world bank steps up cooperation for development in bulgaria großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bulgaria 's infrastructure is in desperate need of renewal bulgaria has one of the most outdated infrastructures of the entire european union , and most eu development funding has been suspended because of corruption fears .
but the year-old government is trying to change that . the world bank and bulgaria on tuesday signed an agreement to better cooperate on development projects for the country 's outdated infrastructure .
the memorandum of understanding signed by world bank president robert zoellick and bulgarian prime minister boyko borisov included " accelerating maintenance and investment in roads and railways , " but did not specify the amount of aid the bank would provide .
the support is to come in conjunction with billions of euros from the european union and development organizations .
bulgaria has already been granted seven to 10 billion euros -lrb- $ 9 to 13 billion -rrb- in eu aid , but has only been able to use 7 to 8 percent of that money because of corruption concerns expressed by brussels , zoellick said .
he added that the world bank would send experts to help with project preparation and management .
infrastructure renewal borisov , head of the conservative citizens for european development of bulgaria party , came into power last year on a platform of rooting out corruption and crime .
he has made accessing eu aid one of his government 's top priorities and said on tuesday that he would use world bank and eu funds to build around 60 kilometers of highway each year by the end of his term in 2013 .
" we have probably the worst infrastructure in the whole european union , " borisov said .
bulgaria joined the eu in 2007 , and despite significant growth after the fall of communism in 1990 it remains the bloc 's poorest and least-developed member state .
author : andrew bowen -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bulgaria suffers as eu corruption clampdown continues bulgaria has missed the chance to claim 220 million euros -lrb- $ 280 million -rrb- in european union funds because of ongoing corruption problems , the first time an eu state has ever suffered such a loss , officials in brussels sai -lrb- 25.11.2008 -rrb- bulgaria launches first trial for abuse of eu funds a bulgarian court has launched a trial against nine people accused of embezzling millions from european union aid funds .
-lrb- 20.10.2008 -rrb- eu cuts funding to bulgaria for failing to fight organized crime for the first time ever , the european union cut off financial assistance to one of its own members when it ordered a stop to aid to bulgaria over corruption and organized crime connection allegations .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- scathing eu report exposes bulgaria 's high-level corruption in a withering indictment to be released next week , the european commission accuses bulgaria of high-level corruption and maladministration in the handling of eu funds .
the report outlines measures to freeze further aid .
-lrb- 18.07.2008 -rrb- feedback is bulgaria ready to receive its eu aid funding ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1971 : aldi boss kidnapped © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1963 : german-french friendship treaty © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1930 : " the blue angel " premieres © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with composer brett dean listen live travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live stock exchange today in history 1867 : " das kapital " © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with violinist henning kraggerud listen live stock exchange today in history 1492 : columbus reaches america © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
caucasus violence explodes in the republic of dagestan amid militants ' efforts to create a muslim nation .
listen to the report .
bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 wikileaks pakistan has criticized the release of secret us diplomatic documents by wikileaks .
farrukh saleem , a political analyst in islamabad , talks about the latest controversy listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 29.11.10 south korea threatens to react to provocations pakistan criticizes latest wikileaks indo-china border talks get going again podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online november asia quiz quiz of the month © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 vietnam party congress the five-yearly congress of vietnam 's communist party has come to an end in hanoi .
joerg bergstermann of the friedrich ebert foundation in hanoi talks about whether the congress has brought any significant changes asia compact join us on facebook !
bangladesh nobel laureate muhammad yunus has been charged with defamation for saying politicians are only interested in money .
abbas faiz from amnesty international on whether there is any chance yunus could be convicted for remarks made in 2007 to a news agency january asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 21.01.11 insurgents seem to be retreating in kunduz indian officials accuse ngos of supporting maoists human trafficking out of nepal has increased podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 migration in bali , ministers from asian countries signed an agreement to tackle human trafficking networks .
asia-pacific spokesman of the international organization for migration , chris lom , talks about why his organization supports the so-called bali process global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media human rights human rights watch has written a letter to the burmese army , calling on it to end widespread abuses .
hrw 's brad adams says the recent elections and political reforms have not changed the army 's behavior listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 31.03.11 indian activists face many dangers asian countries to cooperate on migration issues german exhibition to open in beijing podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online march asia quiz quiz of the month digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 myanmar myanmar 's junta chief than shwe has begun a visit to china .
khin maung win , deputy chief editor of the democratic voice of burma based in oslo , talks about the significance of the visit in view of the upcoming elections in myanmar september asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan floods in pakistan click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
asia compact join us on facebook !
afghanistan one year after the kunduz airstrike , aerial attacks still cause many civilian deaths .
abdul bari hakim of the deutsche welle afghanistan service says kunduz has not been forgotten listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact -lrb- 07.09.2010 -rrb- myanmar 's top general in china prior to controversial election german film about india 's eastern metropolis : kolkata they 're getting younger , the smokers in indonesia podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 kashmir earthquake five years ago , an earthquake struck pakistan-administered kashmir , killing some 80,000 people .
manfred soekefeld of the university of munich speaks about reconstruction in the region , known as ' azad kashmir ' in pakistan pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
october asia quiz quiz of the month asia compact join us on facebook !
interview us businessman holland taylor set up the libforall foundation to promote moderate islam .
thomas baerthlein finds out from holland taylor how the project first came about listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 11.10.10 china 's reactions to the nobel prize for liu xiaobo indian business leaders count on germany haryana 's golden fighters podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
world bank steps up cooperation for development in bulgaria -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de development aid -pipe- 11.08.2010 world bank steps up cooperation for development in bulgaria großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bulgaria 's infrastructure is in desperate need of renewal bulgaria has one of the most outdated infrastructures of the entire european union , and most eu development funding has been suspended because of corruption fears .
but the year-old government is trying to change that . the world bank and bulgaria on tuesday signed an agreement to better cooperate on development projects for the country 's outdated infrastructure .
the memorandum of understanding signed by world bank president robert zoellick and bulgarian prime minister boyko borisov included " accelerating maintenance and investment in roads and railways , " but did not specify the amount of aid the bank would provide .
the support is to come in conjunction with billions of euros from the european union and development organizations .
bulgaria has already been granted seven to 10 billion euros -lrb- $ 9 to 13 billion -rrb- in eu aid , but has only been able to use 7 to 8 percent of that money because of corruption concerns expressed by brussels , zoellick said .
he added that the world bank would send experts to help with project preparation and management .
infrastructure renewal borisov , head of the conservative citizens for european development of bulgaria party , came into power last year on a platform of rooting out corruption and crime .
he has made accessing eu aid one of his government 's top priorities and said on tuesday that he would use world bank and eu funds to build around 60 kilometers of highway each year by the end of his term in 2013 .
" we have probably the worst infrastructure in the whole european union , " borisov said .
bulgaria joined the eu in 2007 , and despite significant growth after the fall of communism in 1990 it remains the bloc 's poorest and least-developed member state .
author : andrew bowen -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bulgaria suffers as eu corruption clampdown continues bulgaria has missed the chance to claim 220 million euros -lrb- $ 280 million -rrb- in european union funds because of ongoing corruption problems , the first time an eu state has ever suffered such a loss , officials in brussels sai -lrb- 25.11.2008 -rrb- bulgaria launches first trial for abuse of eu funds a bulgarian court has launched a trial against nine people accused of embezzling millions from european union aid funds .
-lrb- 20.10.2008 -rrb- eu cuts funding to bulgaria for failing to fight organized crime for the first time ever , the european union cut off financial assistance to one of its own members when it ordered a stop to aid to bulgaria over corruption and organized crime connection allegations .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- scathing eu report exposes bulgaria 's high-level corruption in a withering indictment to be released next week , the european commission accuses bulgaria of high-level corruption and maladministration in the handling of eu funds .
the report outlines measures to freeze further aid .
-lrb- 18.07.2008 -rrb- feedback is bulgaria ready to receive its eu aid funding ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
world bank steps up cooperation for development in bulgaria -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de development aid -pipe- 11.08.2010 world bank steps up cooperation for development in bulgaria großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bulgaria 's infrastructure is in desperate need of renewal bulgaria has one of the most outdated infrastructures of the entire european union , and most eu development funding has been suspended because of corruption fears .
but the year-old government is trying to change that . the world bank and bulgaria on tuesday signed an agreement to better cooperate on development projects for the country 's outdated infrastructure .
the memorandum of understanding signed by world bank president robert zoellick and bulgarian prime minister boyko borisov included " accelerating maintenance and investment in roads and railways , " but did not specify the amount of aid the bank would provide .
the support is to come in conjunction with billions of euros from the european union and development organizations .
bulgaria has already been granted seven to 10 billion euros -lrb- $ 9 to 13 billion -rrb- in eu aid , but has only been able to use 7 to 8 percent of that money because of corruption concerns expressed by brussels , zoellick said .
he added that the world bank would send experts to help with project preparation and management .
infrastructure renewal borisov , head of the conservative citizens for european development of bulgaria party , came into power last year on a platform of rooting out corruption and crime .
he has made accessing eu aid one of his government 's top priorities and said on tuesday that he would use world bank and eu funds to build around 60 kilometers of highway each year by the end of his term in 2013 .
" we have probably the worst infrastructure in the whole european union , " borisov said .
bulgaria joined the eu in 2007 , and despite significant growth after the fall of communism in 1990 it remains the bloc 's poorest and least-developed member state .
author : andrew bowen -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bulgaria suffers as eu corruption clampdown continues bulgaria has missed the chance to claim 220 million euros -lrb- $ 280 million -rrb- in european union funds because of ongoing corruption problems , the first time an eu state has ever suffered such a loss , officials in brussels sai -lrb- 25.11.2008 -rrb- bulgaria launches first trial for abuse of eu funds a bulgarian court has launched a trial against nine people accused of embezzling millions from european union aid funds .
-lrb- 20.10.2008 -rrb- eu cuts funding to bulgaria for failing to fight organized crime for the first time ever , the european union cut off financial assistance to one of its own members when it ordered a stop to aid to bulgaria over corruption and organized crime connection allegations .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- scathing eu report exposes bulgaria 's high-level corruption in a withering indictment to be released next week , the european commission accuses bulgaria of high-level corruption and maladministration in the handling of eu funds .
the report outlines measures to freeze further aid .
-lrb- 18.07.2008 -rrb- feedback is bulgaria ready to receive its eu aid funding ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour a youth orchestra from brazil listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live politics russian prime minister vladimir putin appears determined to get back at the helm again as president .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic voices europe 's malaise libya shows again that the eu 's defense policy is a monkey , not an organ grinder on the world stage .
weapons deals uk ministers criticized for allowing weapons exports to african and middle eastern regimes .
listen to the report international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
podcast series colombian youths are rocking their world .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
bundeswehr how well-prepared will the new-look bundeswehr be for the challenges of the 21st century ?
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live burning books the international community has condemned plans by a florida church to burn copies of the koran .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video the aftermath deptuy head of deutsche welle south asia thomas bärthlein talks to asia compact from islamabad .
listen to the interview images from pakistan learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live stock exchange today in history 1863 : the world � s first subway © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live stock exchange today in history 1522 : � the world is round ! � © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live stock exchange today in history 1894 : berlin 's reichstag © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fujitsu germany - relief for the japanese parent company mini-hydro power plant - energy for everyday household needs portugal accepts eu bailout - who 's next ?
audi & the dtm - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1912 : the sinking of the titanic © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page european business week lf 081010 - mp3-stereo labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live stock exchange today in history 1987 : uwe barschel found dead © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
superbug arrives in british hospitals from india -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.08.2010 superbug arrives in british hospitals from india british scientists are warning of the dangers of a new superbug , known as ndm1 , against which most antibiotics are powerless .
infections that are impossible to treat could spread from person to person . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl1108 superbug uk 9799 dw-tv europe live in good shape - the health show we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german pop - the intersphere -pipe- german pop -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : german pop podcasts : dw presents the hottest bands hans unstern ja , panik alin coen band jupiter jones music -pipe- 11.08.2010 german pop - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic german pop no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live faith matters - the church program we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere 9799 dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media singapore polls as singapore votes , not much change is likely with the people 's action party expected to win cherian george , adjunct senior research fellow at the institute of policy studies in singapore , talks about the likely outcome north korea amnesty international paints a horrifying picture of conditions in north korea 's prison camps .
ai 's asia pacific director sam zarifi says north korea 's camp system has expanded listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 06.05.11 pakistan faces international criticism singapore gears up for polls mixed emotions in us about china 's military growth podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters militancy will southeast asian extremist groups retaliate to avenge bin laden 's death ?
sidney jones from the international crisis group explains how close ties are between al qaeda and the indonesia-based jemaah islamiyah -lrb- ji -rrb- © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 india scandals india is reeling from a series of scandals related to the commonwealth games .
murali krishnan talks about the latest arrests listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 30.11.10 visit to yeonpyeong maldives fear global warming delhi games scandal widens podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online november asia quiz quiz of the month © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 health the world health organization has published its first report on neglected tropical diseases .
dr. albis gabrielli at the who headquarters in geneva talks about neglected diseases in asia asia compact join us on facebook !
afghanistan the high peace council appointed by president karzai is supposed to talk to the taliban .
afghanistan analyst thomas ruttig in kabul talks about the council 's mandate and its chances october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 14.10.10 religious minorities face persecution in myanmar who publishes first report on neglected tropical diseases asia ’ s wayne rooney scores in germany podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 kashmir the indian security forces have arrested kashmir separatist leader syed ali shah geelani prof. javeed alam , expert on kashmir talks about the impact of the arrest on the kashmir issue september asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan floods in pakistan click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
how people are suffering in the aftermath .
pakistan floods asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact -lrb- 07.09.2010 -rrb- myanmar 's top general in china prior to controversial election german film about india 's eastern metropolis : kolkata they 're getting younger , the smokers in indonesia podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media employment indecent concentration of wealth is making life more difficult for common people .
thetis mangahas speaks on the employment situation in asia justice ethnic mongolians started mass demonstrations against the death of mergen .
flora sapio , professor at würzburg university 's contemporary china studies , on her views on these latest developments in china listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 09.06.11 the international labour organization calls for a new era of social justice thai authorities begin legal processing of refugees without detention a new debate over china ’ s founding father , mao zedong podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile internet cyber attack the chinese government denies claims that a hacker in china was able to hack into google accounts .
security concerns the sipri yearbook 2011 highlights growing security concerns linked to natural resources .
listen to the interview beijing remorse or repression ?
beijing offers financial compensation to families of the victims of the tiananmen massacre . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de women -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around 40,000 women and children flee to shelters yearly women 's shelters in germany fear a court ruling to grant unwed fathers custody will put abused women in greater danger .
others hailed the federal constitutional court 's decision as a victory for single fathers . germany 's women 's shelters have joined the country 's largest single parents ' organization in opposing increased rights for unmarried fathers .
until now , the fathers of children born out of wedlock in germany had no legally guaranteed custody rights .
mothers had the right to withhold joint custody , leaving the father to sue the mother for visitation rights .
but edith schwab , head of germany 's association of single mothers and fathers , says the federal constitutional court 's decision last week to grant custody rights to unwed fathers is bad news for single mothers , who themselves will now have to fight to keep unfit fathers from raising their children .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : now courts can award single fathers full custody " mothers who refuse to share custody have very , very good reasons for their decision - meaning that the potential for conflict between the parents is so great that the mother has rightly chosen to deny joint custody , " she said .
worse yet - according to heike herold , who works with an organization that coordinates women 's shelters across germany - in abuse scenarios , increasing fathers ' rights can undermine the safety of mother and child .
" it becomes problematic when there 's domestic violence , but also when you think of cases in which children are conceived by rape , " herold told deutsche welle .
" when you think of the legislature automatically giving these fathers custody , it becomes quite critical . "
a victory for single fathers on august 3 , germany 's constitutional court ruled that " the current legal situation excessively encroached on paternity rights for fathers of children born out of wedlock , because they could only take part in raising the child with the mother 's consent , " according to spokeswoman judith blohm .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the constitutional court ruled that fathers should have the same rights as mothers blohm said that until now " the fathers also did n't have the right to have a court determine what arrangement was in the best interest of the child . "
the case for increased rights was mounted by a father who had no way to prevent the mother of his child from moving to another city and taking the child with her .
the decision , which is expected to be drafted into law when the legislature returns from its summer break , was heralded as a victory for fathers ' rights .
thorsten nitz , an underground train driver , was one of the many fathers across germany who welcomed the decision .
nitz , who has been denied custody of his children since splitting up with his former partner , said he was " relieved when the ruling came , " adding , " it 's been overdue for years . "
harder to cut ties with abusive partners herold sees the flipside to this new right .
although she welcomes increased paternity rights in principle , she feels there needs to be a system in place to review fathers ' suitability before granting them joint custody .
the decision makes it much more difficult for unmarried women to cut off ties with abusive partners , herold said , adding that unmarried women who left abusive relationships " did n't have the problem that their partner , as the biological father of the child , necessarily had access to the child as part of his visitation and custody rights . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : increased fathers ' rights could threaten abused mothers ' anonymity under the new law , she says , a victim of abuse will " potentially have to mount a court case to protect herself and her children . "
" giving the father custody rights also means that the mother can not decide alone to move to another city or switch her child 's school , " herold added .
tracking down mothers through their children as it is , she said , visitation rights alone often give abusive fathers the opportunity to track down their child 's mother , forcing abused mothers to flee from one halfway home to the next .
herold added that , in cases of children born within wedlock , german courts already assume that contact to the father is nearly always in the child 's best interest .
she worries that more children will now have to live with abusive fathers .
" we know from experience that many family courts operate on the premise that joint custody is the new way of doing things .
they ask the parents to ‘ please settle their disputes in the interest of the child ' - but that does n't work when one side uses violence against the other , " she said . according to herold 's shelter coordination network , some 20,000 abused women seek shelter in halfway houses every year in germany - with another 20,000 children accompanying them .
germany 's federal family ministry estimates that a quarter of the country 's female population will be physically abused by a sexual partner .
author : david levitz editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's highest court strengthens unmarried fathers ' rights the german constitutional court decided on tuesday to give unmarried fathers the right to sue for joint custody of their children .
the new ruling brings germany in line with the european court of human rights .
-lrb- 03.08.2010 -rrb- ten eu countries move to streamline divorce process the eu has brought free movement of goods , services and relationships across borders .
but when those international couples divorce , those borders can make it even more complicated .
some eu nations want to change that .
-lrb- 25.03.2010 -rrb- germany says it will improve rights for single dads the german government has said it will make changes to its custody laws after the european court of human rights upheld an unmarried german father 's right to joint custody of his daughter .
-lrb- 04.12.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de women -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around 40,000 women and children flee to shelters yearly women 's shelters in germany fear a court ruling to grant unwed fathers custody will put abused women in greater danger .
others hailed the federal constitutional court 's decision as a victory for single fathers . germany 's women 's shelters have joined the country 's largest single parents ' organization in opposing increased rights for unmarried fathers .
until now , the fathers of children born out of wedlock in germany had no legally guaranteed custody rights .
mothers had the right to withhold joint custody , leaving the father to sue the mother for visitation rights .
but edith schwab , head of germany 's association of single mothers and fathers , says the federal constitutional court 's decision last week to grant custody rights to unwed fathers is bad news for single mothers , who themselves will now have to fight to keep unfit fathers from raising their children .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : now courts can award single fathers full custody " mothers who refuse to share custody have very , very good reasons for their decision - meaning that the potential for conflict between the parents is so great that the mother has rightly chosen to deny joint custody , " she said .
worse yet - according to heike herold , who works with an organization that coordinates women 's shelters across germany - in abuse scenarios , increasing fathers ' rights can undermine the safety of mother and child .
" it becomes problematic when there 's domestic violence , but also when you think of cases in which children are conceived by rape , " herold told deutsche welle .
" when you think of the legislature automatically giving these fathers custody , it becomes quite critical . "
a victory for single fathers on august 3 , germany 's constitutional court ruled that " the current legal situation excessively encroached on paternity rights for fathers of children born out of wedlock , because they could only take part in raising the child with the mother 's consent , " according to spokeswoman judith blohm .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the constitutional court ruled that fathers should have the same rights as mothers blohm said that until now " the fathers also did n't have the right to have a court determine what arrangement was in the best interest of the child . "
the case for increased rights was mounted by a father who had no way to prevent the mother of his child from moving to another city and taking the child with her .
the decision , which is expected to be drafted into law when the legislature returns from its summer break , was heralded as a victory for fathers ' rights .
thorsten nitz , an underground train driver , was one of the many fathers across germany who welcomed the decision .
nitz , who has been denied custody of his children since splitting up with his former partner , said he was " relieved when the ruling came , " adding , " it 's been overdue for years . "
harder to cut ties with abusive partners herold sees the flipside to this new right .
although she welcomes increased paternity rights in principle , she feels there needs to be a system in place to review fathers ' suitability before granting them joint custody .
the decision makes it much more difficult for unmarried women to cut off ties with abusive partners , herold said , adding that unmarried women who left abusive relationships " did n't have the problem that their partner , as the biological father of the child , necessarily had access to the child as part of his visitation and custody rights . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : increased fathers ' rights could threaten abused mothers ' anonymity under the new law , she says , a victim of abuse will " potentially have to mount a court case to protect herself and her children . "
" giving the father custody rights also means that the mother can not decide alone to move to another city or switch her child 's school , " herold added .
tracking down mothers through their children as it is , she said , visitation rights alone often give abusive fathers the opportunity to track down their child 's mother , forcing abused mothers to flee from one halfway home to the next .
herold added that , in cases of children born within wedlock , german courts already assume that contact to the father is nearly always in the child 's best interest .
she worries that more children will now have to live with abusive fathers .
" we know from experience that many family courts operate on the premise that joint custody is the new way of doing things .
they ask the parents to ‘ please settle their disputes in the interest of the child ' - but that does n't work when one side uses violence against the other , " she said . according to herold 's shelter coordination network , some 20,000 abused women seek shelter in halfway houses every year in germany - with another 20,000 children accompanying them .
germany 's federal family ministry estimates that a quarter of the country 's female population will be physically abused by a sexual partner .
author : david levitz editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's highest court strengthens unmarried fathers ' rights the german constitutional court decided on tuesday to give unmarried fathers the right to sue for joint custody of their children .
the new ruling brings germany in line with the european court of human rights .
-lrb- 03.08.2010 -rrb- ten eu countries move to streamline divorce process the eu has brought free movement of goods , services and relationships across borders .
but when those international couples divorce , those borders can make it even more complicated .
some eu nations want to change that .
-lrb- 25.03.2010 -rrb- germany says it will improve rights for single dads the german government has said it will make changes to its custody laws after the european court of human rights upheld an unmarried german father 's right to joint custody of his daughter .
-lrb- 04.12.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live immigration france plans to strip recent immigrants of their french citizenship if they commit serious crimes .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
terrorism europeans give mostly positive reactions to the killing of osama bin laden .
listen to the audio rescued one year after greece was bailed out by the eu and imf , debt problems still persist .
watch the video poptastic sweden 's past success with the eurovision song contest has given it high expectations .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
superbug arrives in british hospitals from india -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.08.2010 superbug arrives in british hospitals from india british scientists are warning of the dangers of a new superbug , known as ndm1 , against which most antibiotics are powerless .
infections that are impossible to treat could spread from person to person . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl1108 superbug uk 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the 54th biennale contemporary art festival in venice spotlights artists from 88 countries .
watch the video turkey turkey 's opposition has undergone a makeover and is touting new rights for minority kurds .
listen to the audio nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany - the tv travel guide we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
italy italy 's prime minister has again expressed his disapproval of nato 's mission in libya .
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio russia russia 's defense minister comes under fire from the top over gaps in the country 's armaments .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live quadriga - der internationale talk we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1943 : ballpoint pen patented dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1936 : thomas mann expatriated © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week finance and flowers : listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1937 : zeppelin explodes dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
nicola lemken - plowing a successful furrow audi and the dtm , part 4 - big race , big business greece - a year with the financial rescue package handmade in germany : belts for a lifetime © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1917 : mata hari executed © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra international listen live stock exchange today in history 1949 : election of the first federal president © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with composer brett dean listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
9/11 anniversary your memories how did 9/11 change your thoughts or worldview ?
send a text or photos to dw .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions hands down dw pundits hope a palm and 50 cents are all it takes to get the scores right on match day 14 .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg cantona 's revolution former footballer , now actor eric cantona wants to start a revolution targetting the banks .
listen to the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report new feature round 2 picks it 's bundesliga round 2 .
the dw experts dust off the crystal ball for another set of forecasts .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
education increases ability to cope with dementia , study shows -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de research -pipe- 11.08.2010 education increases ability to cope with dementia , study shows großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : an extra year of education can cut the risk of suffering from dementia by up to 11 percent scientists have puzzled over why people with more education suffer less from dementia .
a new study shows the brains of people who attend school longer compensate better for conditions associated with old-age dementia . several studies over the last 10 years have shown that the longer people stay in school the less likely they are to develop signs of dementia in old age , but the explanation of why this is the case has been unclear .
older people with higher levels of education cope better with the damage to the brain that is associated with old age , according to a report published last month in the journal brain .
a team of british and finnish researchers examined the brains of 872 people who took part in three ageing studies and found that the more educated test subjects suffered fewer outward signs of dementia than less educated subjects , regardless of the actual extent a disease had affected them , according to hannah keage of the university of cambridge 's institute of public health .
" those with longer education had exactly the same pathology , or damage the brain , as those with low education , " said kaege , who is also a co-author of the report .
" they were just able to compensate or cope with that pathology before expressing their syndrome . "
bildunterschrift : the diseases that cause dementia equally affect people regardless of their education education buffers while people 's brains may indeed be damaged by dementia , they do not show outward signs of the illness and can continue their lives normally .
" it may be that more education actually does teach the brain to do various things in different ways and that there is a cognitive reserve there that 's buffering those with higher education if they loose some abilities , " keage added .
how the brain manages to bypass damage associated with old age remains the topic for future studies , the report said , but added that education is one of the factors .
an overall healthy diet and lifestyle also appear to be factors in lowering the risk of suffering from the signs of dementia .
" you can do things to modify how at risk you are to dementia , and there are things you can do throughout your life to change your risk , " keage said .
" it 's certain that education in early life - primary school , secondary school and any university - will reduce your dementia risk . "
the researchers have said that risk of developing dementia decreases by up to 11 percent for each year of additional education .
dementia is associated with impaired cognition and functional disability .
alzheimer 's disease is one of the most well-known types of dementia , but there are many others , including vascular dementia and lewy body dementia .
author : lars bevanger -lrb- sms -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany opens dementia research center in bonn a new research center devoted to the study of dementia will help hundreds of thousands of people who suffer from alzheimer 's and parkinson 's and other diseases , the german research minister said .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german researchers claim alzheimer 's breakthrough german scientists have developed a new enzyme-blocking method which nearly halts the formation of protein deposits associated with alzheimer 's .
still , it could be years before the treatment becomes reality .
-lrb- 29.09.2008 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian wildfires spread to nuclear contaminated chernobyl area -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian wildfires spread to nuclear contaminated chernobyl area großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : more than 7,600 square kilometers have been scorched by the fires a forest watchdog said wednesday the russian wildfires have already raged across areas contaminated by the chernobyl nuclear disaster .
earlier , emergency officials said they were starting to get the fires under control . fires have blazed across hundreds of hectares in areas contaminated by the 1986 chernobyl nuclear disaster , an official from the russian forest watchdog roslesozaschita said wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 665 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official from the group told the interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- nuclear -rsb- contamination , there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? " added the official in response to denials earlier this week that the fires had reached the bryansk region .
there are fears that radioactive soil in contaminated areas could be swirled into the air along with ash .
the environmental group greenpeace on tuesday accused russian authorities of downplaying the radioactive danger , saying that 20 fires could be seen raging in contaminated areas on satellite photos .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow has been blanketed by thick smog from the fires for days " the elevated radioactive radiation will not lead to new contamination as with chernobyl , " said greenpeace activist vladimir chuprov .
" nevertheless , smaller radioactive quantities should not be underestimated , " he said .
there have been signs of improvement on the ground however , with emergency officials saying the total area of the wildfires had halved since early tuesday .
but authorities also said the number of spot fires had increased by 55 to 612 .
government under fire the fresh concerns come as the russian government and prime minister vladimir putin were sharply criticized by the country 's press over its reaction to the natural disaster .
" his pr engineers can think of nothing more other than to yet again sit him behind the controls of an aircraft , " leading business daily vedomosti commented , referring to reports putin had flown a water bombing jet to douse fires in one of the worst-affected regions .
" this is a tunnel vision of the pr makers who believe that a tv picture of putin behind the wheel of something is an eternal panacea for falling ratings , " it continued .
the usually pro-kremlin daily moskovsky komsomolets wrote sarcastically that the " russian authorities are heroically -lrb- if you believe the television reports -rrb- fighting the forest fires . "
" they are fighting the fires , having allowed these fires right from the start to reach a catastrophic magnitude , " it added .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blazes firefighters continue the battle russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : darren mara , catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live germany today - window on germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
education increases ability to cope with dementia , study shows -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de research -pipe- 11.08.2010 education increases ability to cope with dementia , study shows großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : an extra year of education can cut the risk of suffering from dementia by up to 11 percent scientists have puzzled over why people with more education suffer less from dementia .
a new study shows the brains of people who attend school longer compensate better for conditions associated with old-age dementia . several studies over the last 10 years have shown that the longer people stay in school the less likely they are to develop signs of dementia in old age , but the explanation of why this is the case has been unclear .
older people with higher levels of education cope better with the damage to the brain that is associated with old age , according to a report published last month in the journal brain .
a team of british and finnish researchers examined the brains of 872 people who took part in three ageing studies and found that the more educated test subjects suffered fewer outward signs of dementia than less educated subjects , regardless of the actual extent a disease had affected them , according to hannah keage of the university of cambridge 's institute of public health .
" those with longer education had exactly the same pathology , or damage the brain , as those with low education , " said kaege , who is also a co-author of the report .
" they were just able to compensate or cope with that pathology before expressing their syndrome . "
bildunterschrift : the diseases that cause dementia equally affect people regardless of their education education buffers while people 's brains may indeed be damaged by dementia , they do not show outward signs of the illness and can continue their lives normally .
" it may be that more education actually does teach the brain to do various things in different ways and that there is a cognitive reserve there that 's buffering those with higher education if they loose some abilities , " keage added .
how the brain manages to bypass damage associated with old age remains the topic for future studies , the report said , but added that education is one of the factors .
an overall healthy diet and lifestyle also appear to be factors in lowering the risk of suffering from the signs of dementia .
" you can do things to modify how at risk you are to dementia , and there are things you can do throughout your life to change your risk , " keage said .
" it 's certain that education in early life - primary school , secondary school and any university - will reduce your dementia risk . "
the researchers have said that risk of developing dementia decreases by up to 11 percent for each year of additional education .
dementia is associated with impaired cognition and functional disability .
alzheimer 's disease is one of the most well-known types of dementia , but there are many others , including vascular dementia and lewy body dementia .
author : lars bevanger -lrb- sms -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany opens dementia research center in bonn a new research center devoted to the study of dementia will help hundreds of thousands of people who suffer from alzheimer 's and parkinson 's and other diseases , the german research minister said .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german researchers claim alzheimer 's breakthrough german scientists have developed a new enzyme-blocking method which nearly halts the formation of protein deposits associated with alzheimer 's .
still , it could be years before the treatment becomes reality .
-lrb- 29.09.2008 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de women -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around 40,000 women and children flee to shelters yearly women 's shelters in germany fear a court ruling to grant unwed fathers custody will put abused women in greater danger .
others hailed the federal constitutional court 's decision as a victory for single fathers . germany 's women 's shelters have joined the country 's largest single parents ' organization in opposing increased rights for unmarried fathers .
until now , the fathers of children born out of wedlock in germany had no legally guaranteed custody rights .
mothers had the right to withhold joint custody , leaving the father to sue the mother for visitation rights .
but edith schwab , head of germany 's association of single mothers and fathers , says the federal constitutional court 's decision last week to grant custody rights to unwed fathers is bad news for single mothers , who themselves will now have to fight to keep unfit fathers from raising their children .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : now courts can award single fathers full custody " mothers who refuse to share custody have very , very good reasons for their decision - meaning that the potential for conflict between the parents is so great that the mother has rightly chosen to deny joint custody , " she said .
worse yet - according to heike herold , who works with an organization that coordinates women 's shelters across germany - in abuse scenarios , increasing fathers ' rights can undermine the safety of mother and child .
" it becomes problematic when there 's domestic violence , but also when you think of cases in which children are conceived by rape , " herold told deutsche welle .
" when you think of the legislature automatically giving these fathers custody , it becomes quite critical . "
a victory for single fathers on august 3 , germany 's constitutional court ruled that " the current legal situation excessively encroached on paternity rights for fathers of children born out of wedlock , because they could only take part in raising the child with the mother 's consent , " according to spokeswoman judith blohm .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the constitutional court ruled that fathers should have the same rights as mothers blohm said that until now " the fathers also did n't have the right to have a court determine what arrangement was in the best interest of the child . "
the case for increased rights was mounted by a father who had no way to prevent the mother of his child from moving to another city and taking the child with her .
the decision , which is expected to be drafted into law when the legislature returns from its summer break , was heralded as a victory for fathers ' rights .
thorsten nitz , an underground train driver , was one of the many fathers across germany who welcomed the decision .
nitz , who has been denied custody of his children since splitting up with his former partner , said he was " relieved when the ruling came , " adding , " it 's been overdue for years . "
harder to cut ties with abusive partners herold sees the flipside to this new right .
although she welcomes increased paternity rights in principle , she feels there needs to be a system in place to review fathers ' suitability before granting them joint custody .
the decision makes it much more difficult for unmarried women to cut off ties with abusive partners , herold said , adding that unmarried women who left abusive relationships " did n't have the problem that their partner , as the biological father of the child , necessarily had access to the child as part of his visitation and custody rights . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : increased fathers ' rights could threaten abused mothers ' anonymity under the new law , she says , a victim of abuse will " potentially have to mount a court case to protect herself and her children . "
" giving the father custody rights also means that the mother can not decide alone to move to another city or switch her child 's school , " herold added .
tracking down mothers through their children as it is , she said , visitation rights alone often give abusive fathers the opportunity to track down their child 's mother , forcing abused mothers to flee from one halfway home to the next .
herold added that , in cases of children born within wedlock , german courts already assume that contact to the father is nearly always in the child 's best interest .
she worries that more children will now have to live with abusive fathers .
" we know from experience that many family courts operate on the premise that joint custody is the new way of doing things .
they ask the parents to ‘ please settle their disputes in the interest of the child ' - but that does n't work when one side uses violence against the other , " she said . according to herold 's shelter coordination network , some 20,000 abused women seek shelter in halfway houses every year in germany - with another 20,000 children accompanying them .
germany 's federal family ministry estimates that a quarter of the country 's female population will be physically abused by a sexual partner .
author : david levitz editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's highest court strengthens unmarried fathers ' rights the german constitutional court decided on tuesday to give unmarried fathers the right to sue for joint custody of their children .
the new ruling brings germany in line with the european court of human rights .
-lrb- 03.08.2010 -rrb- ten eu countries move to streamline divorce process the eu has brought free movement of goods , services and relationships across borders .
but when those international couples divorce , those borders can make it even more complicated .
some eu nations want to change that .
-lrb- 25.03.2010 -rrb- germany says it will improve rights for single dads the german government has said it will make changes to its custody laws after the european court of human rights upheld an unmarried german father 's right to joint custody of his daughter .
-lrb- 04.12.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live drive it ! - the motor magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de women -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around 40,000 women and children flee to shelters yearly women 's shelters in germany fear a court ruling to grant unwed fathers custody will put abused women in greater danger .
others hailed the federal constitutional court 's decision as a victory for single fathers . germany 's women 's shelters have joined the country 's largest single parents ' organization in opposing increased rights for unmarried fathers .
until now , the fathers of children born out of wedlock in germany had no legally guaranteed custody rights .
mothers had the right to withhold joint custody , leaving the father to sue the mother for visitation rights .
but edith schwab , head of germany 's association of single mothers and fathers , says the federal constitutional court 's decision last week to grant custody rights to unwed fathers is bad news for single mothers , who themselves will now have to fight to keep unfit fathers from raising their children .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : now courts can award single fathers full custody " mothers who refuse to share custody have very , very good reasons for their decision - meaning that the potential for conflict between the parents is so great that the mother has rightly chosen to deny joint custody , " she said .
worse yet - according to heike herold , who works with an organization that coordinates women 's shelters across germany - in abuse scenarios , increasing fathers ' rights can undermine the safety of mother and child .
" it becomes problematic when there 's domestic violence , but also when you think of cases in which children are conceived by rape , " herold told deutsche welle .
" when you think of the legislature automatically giving these fathers custody , it becomes quite critical . "
a victory for single fathers on august 3 , germany 's constitutional court ruled that " the current legal situation excessively encroached on paternity rights for fathers of children born out of wedlock , because they could only take part in raising the child with the mother 's consent , " according to spokeswoman judith blohm .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the constitutional court ruled that fathers should have the same rights as mothers blohm said that until now " the fathers also did n't have the right to have a court determine what arrangement was in the best interest of the child . "
the case for increased rights was mounted by a father who had no way to prevent the mother of his child from moving to another city and taking the child with her .
the decision , which is expected to be drafted into law when the legislature returns from its summer break , was heralded as a victory for fathers ' rights .
thorsten nitz , an underground train driver , was one of the many fathers across germany who welcomed the decision .
nitz , who has been denied custody of his children since splitting up with his former partner , said he was " relieved when the ruling came , " adding , " it 's been overdue for years . "
harder to cut ties with abusive partners herold sees the flipside to this new right .
although she welcomes increased paternity rights in principle , she feels there needs to be a system in place to review fathers ' suitability before granting them joint custody .
the decision makes it much more difficult for unmarried women to cut off ties with abusive partners , herold said , adding that unmarried women who left abusive relationships " did n't have the problem that their partner , as the biological father of the child , necessarily had access to the child as part of his visitation and custody rights . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : increased fathers ' rights could threaten abused mothers ' anonymity under the new law , she says , a victim of abuse will " potentially have to mount a court case to protect herself and her children . "
" giving the father custody rights also means that the mother can not decide alone to move to another city or switch her child 's school , " herold added .
tracking down mothers through their children as it is , she said , visitation rights alone often give abusive fathers the opportunity to track down their child 's mother , forcing abused mothers to flee from one halfway home to the next .
herold added that , in cases of children born within wedlock , german courts already assume that contact to the father is nearly always in the child 's best interest .
she worries that more children will now have to live with abusive fathers .
" we know from experience that many family courts operate on the premise that joint custody is the new way of doing things .
they ask the parents to ‘ please settle their disputes in the interest of the child ' - but that does n't work when one side uses violence against the other , " she said . according to herold 's shelter coordination network , some 20,000 abused women seek shelter in halfway houses every year in germany - with another 20,000 children accompanying them .
germany 's federal family ministry estimates that a quarter of the country 's female population will be physically abused by a sexual partner .
author : david levitz editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's highest court strengthens unmarried fathers ' rights the german constitutional court decided on tuesday to give unmarried fathers the right to sue for joint custody of their children .
the new ruling brings germany in line with the european court of human rights .
-lrb- 03.08.2010 -rrb- ten eu countries move to streamline divorce process the eu has brought free movement of goods , services and relationships across borders .
but when those international couples divorce , those borders can make it even more complicated .
some eu nations want to change that .
-lrb- 25.03.2010 -rrb- germany says it will improve rights for single dads the german government has said it will make changes to its custody laws after the european court of human rights upheld an unmarried german father 's right to joint custody of his daughter .
-lrb- 04.12.2009 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the court 's decision to increase fathers ' rights ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kino we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 01.10.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1964 : tunnel escape © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1938 : kristallnacht © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week miriam makeba , aka mama africa - died on nov .
10 , 2008 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german pop - the intersphere -pipe- german pop -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : german pop podcasts : dw presents the hottest bands hans unstern ja , panik alin coen band jupiter jones music -pipe- 11.08.2010 german pop - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic german pop no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live motor mobil - das automagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress broadcasting independent news to sealed-off north korea listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds pavan sukhdev listen live stock exchange today in history 1917 : ufa established © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live journey to mecca follow dw reporter ali almakhlafi on the hajj and get an inside view of the muslim pilgrimage .
ali 's journal : day 2 focus free at last focus on democracy : myanmar leader aung san suu kyi is free after seven years of house arrest .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp the report as video on demand learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
african aid germany has been slow to react to the way china and others are changing the rules on aid for africa .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1934 : the " long march " begins © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 environment the next round of global climate change talks kicks off in cancun at the end of the month .
dilip sinha , additional secretary at the indian foreign ministry , talks about the developing countries ' expectations of cancun human rights why are six countries not attending the nobel peace prize ceremony this year ?
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 19.11.10 burmese community in india has mixed feelings developing countries prepare for climate talks phnom penh gears up for water festival podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 january asia quiz quiz of the month north korea us envoy stephen bosworth is hopeful six-nation talks can resume soon .
ruediger frank , an expert on korean politics at the university of vienna , explains why all sides are suddenly talking peace and dialogue again asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 04.01.11 the punjab governor assassinated in islamabad us hopes for the resumption of six-party talks on n korea human rights abuses in papua podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet venice 's sea wall , fish conflict-mediation , industrial agriculture , rwandan methane listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour ard international music competition , part one listen live stock exchange today in history 1967 : thalidomide bill of indictment © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1789 : the storming of the bastille dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 asian development bank the adb is planning to rope in the private sector to cater to primary development needs by 2020 .
adb vice president lakshmi venkatachalam talks about her agenda in europe , private sector and development strategies pakistan the aftermath listen to the interview images from pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
september asia quiz quiz of the month asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact -lrb- 10.09.2010 -rrb- after the floods , eid is no more festive in nowshera the adb : new strategies for development lack of experts becomes a problem for ancient indian inscriptions .
ac 100910 asia compact sendung podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
9/11 anniversary your memories how did 9/11 change your thoughts or worldview ?
send a text or photos to dw .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1875 : albert schweitzer © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live stock exchange today in history 1985 : " live aid " concert dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live stock exchange today in history 1984 : kohl and mitterrand in verdun © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio tour de danger two accidents involving media vehicles has some wondering if the tour de france is too dangerous .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape - the health show we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video tour de danger why have there been so many violent crashes at this year 's tour de france ?
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet electric cars , russia 's khimki forest , health and climate , canadian pipelines listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1972 : terrorist attack at olympic games in munich © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 environment an indian ngo is distributing solar lanterns to villagers in the state of maharashtra .
jayant sarnaik from the applied enviromental research foundation talks about the project and the chances for renewable energies in rural india asia compact join us on facebook !
health the world health organization has published its first report on neglected tropical diseases .
dr. albis gabrielli at the who headquarters in geneva talks about neglected diseases in asia october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 18.10.10 german foreign minister guido westerwelle in india conference in rome discusses afghanistan strategy solar lanterns for indian villagers podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tracking the ' ice island ' that broke off greenland -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 11.08.2010 tracking the ' ice island ' that broke off greenland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petermann glacier is constantly changing a 260-square kilometer ice sheet has split off from greenland 's coast and may threaten shipping lanes and oil platforms .
deutsche welle speaks with the canadian ice service researcher who first spotted the " ice island . " deutsche welle talks with trudy wohlleben , the researcher with the canadian ice service who discovered a 260-square kilometer -lrb- 100 square mile -rrb- ice island that has torn away from petermann glacier on greenland 's northwest coast .
it 's feared the massive floating ice sheet could enter shipping lanes or run into oil platforms while drifting south .
deutsche welle : what do you do as an ice forecaster ?
trudy wohlleben : i spend a lot of time analyzing satellite imagery for ice to create charts monitoring ice concentration , type and thickness .
what have you discovered in greenland ?
on the northwest coast there is a glacier , petermann glacier , which is known for calving off large tabular icebergs or ice islands .
we 've been monitoring this glacier for a while expecting a large piece to fall off , and on august 5 a large section actually did break off - much larger than we actually anticipated .
it was about 30 kilometers -lrb- 18.6 miles -rrb- long and 10 kilometers wide .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these nasa photos , taken a week apart , show the ice sheet splitting what is the significance of this ?
usually what happens is once they enter the nares strait they drift southwards with the currents - usually it fragments when it comes south - but the larger pieces can eventually make their way into the shipping lanes off the labrador coast in newfoundland .
even though it takes a year or two to descend that far , we like to put tracking beacons on the large pieces and monitor them for hazards to shipping and to oil platforms .
not all satellites can see through clouds , so sometimes on cloudy days you 'll lose the position .
what we like to do is put a beacon on the ice island ; it sends a signal that satellites can track so we can know its position at all times .
that way we can monitor the rate of drift of the ice island , the speed and its location .
given that ice island calving is a relatively common phenomenon , can you explain why people are so interested in this instance ?
calving of ice islands is indeed quite average .
i think what 's special about this instance is just that it 's so much bigger than any other one that 's calved .
the last large one of this size was back in the ' 60s .
so i think it 's just the sheer size of this ice island which has everyone so excited - and perhaps also that it 's all in one enormous piece .
what exactly did you see when you realized that the ice island had broken off ?
well , it looks like a big blue line through a nice , white glacier on the satellite image .
we essentially then realized that a section has floated off into the ocean .
yeah , it 's quite dramatic if you look at the pictures .
how did you feel when you initially saw the pictures ?
sure , i was excited .
i knew the sea ice community would be excited ; i did n't realize the whole world would get so excited about it !
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the ice island has broken off from the bulk of the glacier what do you think this could mean for the shipping industry and business ?
it 's hard to say .
a similar calving event occurred in 2008 , albeit much , much smaller .
in that case , it broke in july , and it took about a year for it to come down the coast of baffin island .
near frobisher bay - at the south end of baffin island , which is the northern tip of labrador - it broke into hundreds of pieces and then started coming down with the main iceberg pack down the labrador coast .
in that case , the pieces were the size of normal icebergs coming down the coast .
i think this instance , though , because so much more ice has broken off , will produce larger chunks of ice that will come down into the shipping lanes where the oil platforms are .
the danger is - once they get to where the oil platforms are - if the icebergs are too big then the normal methods used to break up the ice as it approaches the platform will have a lot more difficulties .
is it possible that this ice mass will ' ground ' and stay wherever it hits land for decades ?
it is a possibility .
the depth of the ice island is about 55 meters -lrb- 180.4 feet -rrb- .
these things are so deep that they tend to drift not with the wind , but with the currents deeper down .
there is always a chance it will survive and make it all the way south , as the one in 2008 did .
in our profession , this will most certainly mean additional work tracking the ice island and also the fragments as it starts to fracture .
but next year we would have to prepare either warnings or watches for shipping lanes downstream and for the oil platforms .
does this tell us anything about climate change ?
this is a really tricky question .
there are so many factors at work , which makes it hard to link these events to any one specific cause .
there 's the ocean circulation underneath the floating tongue of the glacier and the heat content of the ocean .
and then there are the katabatic winds coming off the greenland ice cap .
all these things play a role , and i am in no place to speculate on any one thing that it could be attributed to .
what does something like this look like ?
if you were standing in the middle of it , you would n't really know you were even on a floating piece of ice .
if you were on a ship , it would look like a big wall of ice rising out of the ocean .
interview : saroja coelho / glb editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de massive ice sheet breaks away from greenland glacier researchers say a floating ice sheet more than four times the size of new york 's manhattan island could eventually enter shipping lanes or run into oil platforms while drifting south .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- a first look inside iceland 's ash wasteland for most europeans , iceland 's volcanic eruption is a bad memory .
but the effects continue to be felt in iceland , where deutsche welle caught a glimpse of a once pristine national park , which is now an ash wasteland .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- climate change already visible on greenland many scientists and governments are talking about what will happen once climate change begins to occur , but on the great island of greenland global warming is n't just a future problem - it 's happening now .
-lrb- 14.08.2009 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 11.08.2010 books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pressler 's " malka mai " is based the memories of a holocaust survivor writer mirjam pressler believes books can help people come to terms with their circumstances - even if they ca n't change the world .
her works focus on struggling figures who may help readers see their lives differently . author mirjam pressler is a sharp observer who writes in a simple , precise style about characters who do n't have it easy in life . her celebrated debut novel " bitter chocolate " -lrb- 1980 -rrb- centered on a 15-year-old with an eating disorder .
the book was recognized with the oldenburg prize for children and youth , which proved to be just the first of many honors for the industrious author . pressler has written more than 40 books in the last 30 years , and she has also translated more than 300 from hebrew , english and dutch into german - including a critical edition of the diary of anne frank .
pressler 's own works have also been translated many times , including the 2001 all-ages title " malka mai " that was translated into 14 languages . the end of a childhood bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : malka 's mother must decide to leave her with farmers in the carpathian mountains it 's september , 1943 , and malka still has her own bed , her own clothes in the closet , new sandals , beautiful blond braids and enough to eat ; she even has her big sister minna and her mother , dr. mai . less than half of a year later , malka has learned " to hear nothing , see nothing , and to hole up inside herself . "
she has lost her home and the confidence that her mother would always be there .
she has been starved , completely shaved and can scarcely remember being the child of seven years old that she was just a few months ago . in early fall 1943 , germans began deporting citizens in lawoczne , a small town on the german-polish border .
doctor hanna mai and her two daughters , minna and malka , were forced to flee suddenly by foot across the carpathian mountains into hungary . along the way , seven-year-old malka becomes sick and catches a high fever .
her mother makes the agonizing decision to leave her with a family of farmers .
they assure her that they will bring malka to her once she recovers - after all , no one expects a child to stand out . but things do n't turn out as planned .
malka is betrayed , sent to a prison and then into the ghetto .
a nightmare begins at the fringes of a collapsing civilization .
in the end , though , malka survives and is even able to find her way back to her mother - although she has become practically a different person in the meantime . experienced history bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mirjam pressler won the german book prize in 2004 for her works today , malka mai lives in tel aviv .
she had recounted to mirjam pressler the parts of her story that she is able to remember .
having shared some of mai 's experiences , pressler was able to fill in the gaps knowingly and sensitively .
pressler is also jewish , just slightly younger than mai , and was raised by foster parents and in a boarding school . her narration treats more than just a child who must cast off her memories to survive ; the story also portrays a mother who nearly falls apart due to self-doubt and blame . mirjam pressler once said she does n't buy into the notion that books can change the world .
but , she said , the right book can move some people deeply . that may happen , for instance , when a book shows how someone can remain open to things getting better , or when a child learns through reading that he is n't responsible for circumstances he ca n't control . " malka mai " is just that kind of book . author : silke bartlick -lrb- gsw -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- everyone loves the little mole who never gave up it may be the most natural thing in the world , but werner holzwarth was one of the first to write a children 's book about it .
it came as a surprise to some that a story about shit became an international hit .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- german children 's books prove to be bestsellers abroad books for kids from germany have become a hit on the international book market .
storybook heroes like those from cornelia funke or michael ende are beloved by young readers from the us to china or korea .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german children 's publishers take traditional route to success books for young people have resisted the economic crisis .
the youth segment in publishing shows stable growth - even though the majority of children 's and youth publishers are refusing to go digital .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- feedback have you read " malka mai " ?
if so , what did you think ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live culture calendar november happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 11.08.2010 books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pressler 's " malka mai " is based the memories of a holocaust survivor writer mirjam pressler believes books can help people come to terms with their circumstances - even if they ca n't change the world .
her works focus on struggling figures who may help readers see their lives differently . author mirjam pressler is a sharp observer who writes in a simple , precise style about characters who do n't have it easy in life . her celebrated debut novel " bitter chocolate " -lrb- 1980 -rrb- centered on a 15-year-old with an eating disorder .
the book was recognized with the oldenburg prize for children and youth , which proved to be just the first of many honors for the industrious author . pressler has written more than 40 books in the last 30 years , and she has also translated more than 300 from hebrew , english and dutch into german - including a critical edition of the diary of anne frank .
pressler 's own works have also been translated many times , including the 2001 all-ages title " malka mai " that was translated into 14 languages . the end of a childhood bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : malka 's mother must decide to leave her with farmers in the carpathian mountains it 's september , 1943 , and malka still has her own bed , her own clothes in the closet , new sandals , beautiful blond braids and enough to eat ; she even has her big sister minna and her mother , dr. mai . less than half of a year later , malka has learned " to hear nothing , see nothing , and to hole up inside herself . "
she has lost her home and the confidence that her mother would always be there .
she has been starved , completely shaved and can scarcely remember being the child of seven years old that she was just a few months ago . in early fall 1943 , germans began deporting citizens in lawoczne , a small town on the german-polish border .
doctor hanna mai and her two daughters , minna and malka , were forced to flee suddenly by foot across the carpathian mountains into hungary . along the way , seven-year-old malka becomes sick and catches a high fever .
her mother makes the agonizing decision to leave her with a family of farmers .
they assure her that they will bring malka to her once she recovers - after all , no one expects a child to stand out . but things do n't turn out as planned .
malka is betrayed , sent to a prison and then into the ghetto .
a nightmare begins at the fringes of a collapsing civilization .
in the end , though , malka survives and is even able to find her way back to her mother - although she has become practically a different person in the meantime . experienced history bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mirjam pressler won the german book prize in 2004 for her works today , malka mai lives in tel aviv .
she had recounted to mirjam pressler the parts of her story that she is able to remember .
having shared some of mai 's experiences , pressler was able to fill in the gaps knowingly and sensitively .
pressler is also jewish , just slightly younger than mai , and was raised by foster parents and in a boarding school . her narration treats more than just a child who must cast off her memories to survive ; the story also portrays a mother who nearly falls apart due to self-doubt and blame . mirjam pressler once said she does n't buy into the notion that books can change the world .
but , she said , the right book can move some people deeply . that may happen , for instance , when a book shows how someone can remain open to things getting better , or when a child learns through reading that he is n't responsible for circumstances he ca n't control . " malka mai " is just that kind of book . author : silke bartlick -lrb- gsw -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- everyone loves the little mole who never gave up it may be the most natural thing in the world , but werner holzwarth was one of the first to write a children 's book about it .
it came as a surprise to some that a story about shit became an international hit .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- german children 's books prove to be bestsellers abroad books for kids from germany have become a hit on the international book market .
storybook heroes like those from cornelia funke or michael ende are beloved by young readers from the us to china or korea .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german children 's publishers take traditional route to success books for young people have resisted the economic crisis .
the youth segment in publishing shows stable growth - even though the majority of children 's and youth publishers are refusing to go digital .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- feedback have you read " malka mai " ?
if so , what did you think ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture calendar april happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
literature looking for a good book ?
book review : rabinowich 's ' splithead ' depicts east-west divide visit the new books in german website podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 11 - jupiter jones are moving on up subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 11.08.2010 books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pressler 's " malka mai " is based the memories of a holocaust survivor writer mirjam pressler believes books can help people come to terms with their circumstances - even if they ca n't change the world .
her works focus on struggling figures who may help readers see their lives differently . author mirjam pressler is a sharp observer who writes in a simple , precise style about characters who do n't have it easy in life . her celebrated debut novel " bitter chocolate " -lrb- 1980 -rrb- centered on a 15-year-old with an eating disorder .
the book was recognized with the oldenburg prize for children and youth , which proved to be just the first of many honors for the industrious author . pressler has written more than 40 books in the last 30 years , and she has also translated more than 300 from hebrew , english and dutch into german - including a critical edition of the diary of anne frank .
pressler 's own works have also been translated many times , including the 2001 all-ages title " malka mai " that was translated into 14 languages . the end of a childhood bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : malka 's mother must decide to leave her with farmers in the carpathian mountains it 's september , 1943 , and malka still has her own bed , her own clothes in the closet , new sandals , beautiful blond braids and enough to eat ; she even has her big sister minna and her mother , dr. mai . less than half of a year later , malka has learned " to hear nothing , see nothing , and to hole up inside herself . "
she has lost her home and the confidence that her mother would always be there .
she has been starved , completely shaved and can scarcely remember being the child of seven years old that she was just a few months ago . in early fall 1943 , germans began deporting citizens in lawoczne , a small town on the german-polish border .
doctor hanna mai and her two daughters , minna and malka , were forced to flee suddenly by foot across the carpathian mountains into hungary . along the way , seven-year-old malka becomes sick and catches a high fever .
her mother makes the agonizing decision to leave her with a family of farmers .
they assure her that they will bring malka to her once she recovers - after all , no one expects a child to stand out . but things do n't turn out as planned .
malka is betrayed , sent to a prison and then into the ghetto .
a nightmare begins at the fringes of a collapsing civilization .
in the end , though , malka survives and is even able to find her way back to her mother - although she has become practically a different person in the meantime . experienced history bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mirjam pressler won the german book prize in 2004 for her works today , malka mai lives in tel aviv .
she had recounted to mirjam pressler the parts of her story that she is able to remember .
having shared some of mai 's experiences , pressler was able to fill in the gaps knowingly and sensitively .
pressler is also jewish , just slightly younger than mai , and was raised by foster parents and in a boarding school . her narration treats more than just a child who must cast off her memories to survive ; the story also portrays a mother who nearly falls apart due to self-doubt and blame . mirjam pressler once said she does n't buy into the notion that books can change the world .
but , she said , the right book can move some people deeply . that may happen , for instance , when a book shows how someone can remain open to things getting better , or when a child learns through reading that he is n't responsible for circumstances he ca n't control . " malka mai " is just that kind of book . author : silke bartlick -lrb- gsw -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- everyone loves the little mole who never gave up it may be the most natural thing in the world , but werner holzwarth was one of the first to write a children 's book about it .
it came as a surprise to some that a story about shit became an international hit .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- german children 's books prove to be bestsellers abroad books for kids from germany have become a hit on the international book market .
storybook heroes like those from cornelia funke or michael ende are beloved by young readers from the us to china or korea .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german children 's publishers take traditional route to success books for young people have resisted the economic crisis .
the youth segment in publishing shows stable growth - even though the majority of children 's and youth publishers are refusing to go digital .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- feedback have you read " malka mai " ?
if so , what did you think ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
music copyright issues a tightening of music licensing laws means kindergartens have to pay for the songs kids sing .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski subscribe on itunes get the rss feed visit germany dw-tv tells you the top things to visit in this fun rhineland city .
" recommended " as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- cologne cologne carnival the claudius therme ' suenner im walfisch ' brewery -lrb- german -rrb- word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the voodoo we do dw 's experts resort to a mixture of voodoo and chicken bones to predict week eleven 's results .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg players bremen and peru 's claudio pizarro talks on becoming the top foreign scorer in bundesliga history .
watch the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report new feature round 2 picks it 's bundesliga round 2 .
the dw experts dust off the crystal ball for another set of forecasts .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live bundesliga predictions match day 17 picks the dw pundits are back from the alien abduction that kept them silent last week .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live talking germany - the german way of life we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
superbug arrives in british hospitals from india -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.08.2010 superbug arrives in british hospitals from india british scientists are warning of the dangers of a new superbug , known as ndm1 , against which most antibiotics are powerless .
infections that are impossible to treat could spread from person to person . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl1108 superbug uk 9798 dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch - leben in deutschland we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
superbug arrives in british hospitals from india -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.08.2010 superbug arrives in british hospitals from india british scientists are warning of the dangers of a new superbug , known as ndm1 , against which most antibiotics are powerless .
infections that are impossible to treat could spread from person to person . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl1108 superbug uk 9798 dw-tv europe live discover germany - the tv travel guide we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- 9797 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions up for the cuppa dw 's soccer pundits have been guzzling earl grey and staring at leafy prediction patterns again .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg players bremen and peru 's claudio pizarro talks on becoming the top foreign scorer in bundesliga history .
watch the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live bundesliga predictions match day 17 picks the dw pundits are back from the alien abduction that kept them silent last week .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live faith matters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
superbug arrives in british hospitals from india -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 11.08.2010 superbug arrives in british hospitals from india british scientists are warning of the dangers of a new superbug , known as ndm1 , against which most antibiotics are powerless .
infections that are impossible to treat could spread from person to person . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic nl1108 superbug uk 9797 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 pakistan floods oxfam has published a pakistan flood affectees survey to highlight what the survivors urgently need .
oxfam 's fatima naqvi talks about the report april asia quiz quiz of the month afghanistan protests against the burning of a koran in florida have continued in afghanistan .
thomas ruttig from the afghan analysts network talks about the riots , which killed more than 20 people over the weekend listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 07.04.11 thailand faces criticism for firing cluster munitions into cambodia unemployment is a big problem for pakistan ’ s flood survivors japan has a unique earthquake early warning system podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 uzbekistan human rights organizations have slammed the eu for hosting uzbek president islam karimov .
andrew stroehlein , of international crisis group , says the eu does n't have a clear policy regarding central asian dictators korean peninsula north korean defectors want more active role s korea has agreed to hold high-level talks with the north , marking a breakthrough in the crisis .
january asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 26.01.11 afghan president hamid karzai inaugurates new parliament rights organizations criticize eu for hosting uzbek president survey finds nine out of 10 cambodian farmers suffer from pesticide poisoning podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9801 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media thai election one year after the bloody crackdown in bangkok , a lot of questions remain unanswered .
international crisis group 's rungrawee chalermsripinyorat on the situation in thailand ahead of the election on july 3 sri lanka two years ago , sri lanka 's army put a brutal end to a separatist rebellion that lasted 26 years .
sagarica delgoda from the friedrich naumann foundation in colombo talks about the challenges the government faces international relations us-pakistan relations pakistan needs to convince the us it is a real ally in the fight against terrorism , says expert .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 20.05.11 bhutan 's king announces royal wedding thailand gears up for election 20 years since rajiv gandhi 's assassination podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 india a doctor and rights activist has been sentenced to life imprisonment for supporting the maoists .
dw correspondent murali krishnan talks about the case of binayak sen asia compact join us on facebook !
thai emergency the thai government has lifted the state of emergency in bangkok .
dw correspondent ron corben talks about the lifting of the emergency eight months after being imposed december asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.12.10 indian rights activist sentenced to life imprisonment bhutto murder still a mystery after three years myanmar faces uncertainty in 2011 podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 kashmir the indian security forces have arrested kashmir separatist leader syed ali shah geelani prof. javeed alam , expert on kashmir talks about the impact of the arrest on the kashmir issue september asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan floods in pakistan click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
how people are suffering in the aftermath .
pakistan floods asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact -lrb- 08.09.2010 -rrb- separatist leader arrested in indian-administered kashmir cambodian opposition leader faces trial bureaucracy in india makes things difficult for universal education podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 afghanistan the high peace council appointed by president karzai is supposed to talk to the taliban .
afghanistan analyst thomas ruttig in kabul talks about the council 's mandate and its chances asia compact join us on facebook !
interview territorial disputes in the south china sea have overshadowed the asian defense talks in hanoi .
arun chowdhury speaks to jana sehnalkova , an expert on us-china relations at the charles university in prague october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 13.10.10 a fair share of autonomy for the high peace council in afghanistan complicated parliamentary arithmetics after the elections in kyrgyzstan liao yiwu enjoys the sweet taste of freedom in germany podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 environment the next round of global climate change talks kicks off in cancun at the end of the month .
dilip sinha , additional secretary at the indian foreign ministry , talks about the developing countries ' expectations of cancun human rights why are six countries not attending the nobel peace prize ceremony this year ?
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 19.11.10 burmese community in india has mixed feelings developing countries prepare for climate talks phnom penh gears up for water festival podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
politics pressure mounting thai prime minister-elect yingluck shinawatra faces big challenges in office .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with author tom rachman listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit die woche we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1918 : the murder of the tsar family dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week liquid assets : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1874 : die fledermaus © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1924 : first olympic winter games © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week football and finance : listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1795 : the meter is laid down in paris dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
well-wrapped - a house journeys to china studio guest : michael hüther düsseldorf - the song contest as an economic factor energy butler - cutting utility bills made easy pumped storage power plant - ecological energy depot in the black forest © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1938 : uranium nuclear fission © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 01.10.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1964 : tunnel escape © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1972 : terrorist attack at olympic games in munich © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top german 100 listen live stock exchange today in history 1945 : nuremberg trials begin © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
9/11 anniversary your memories how did 9/11 change your thoughts or worldview ?
send a text or photos to dw .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
world bank steps up cooperation for development in bulgaria -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de development aid -pipe- 11.08.2010 world bank steps up cooperation for development in bulgaria großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bulgaria 's infrastructure is in desperate need of renewal bulgaria has one of the most outdated infrastructures of the entire european union , and most eu development funding has been suspended because of corruption fears .
but the year-old government is trying to change that . the world bank and bulgaria on tuesday signed an agreement to better cooperate on development projects for the country 's outdated infrastructure .
the memorandum of understanding signed by world bank president robert zoellick and bulgarian prime minister boyko borisov included " accelerating maintenance and investment in roads and railways , " but did not specify the amount of aid the bank would provide .
the support is to come in conjunction with billions of euros from the european union and development organizations .
bulgaria has already been granted seven to 10 billion euros -lrb- $ 9 to 13 billion -rrb- in eu aid , but has only been able to use 7 to 8 percent of that money because of corruption concerns expressed by brussels , zoellick said .
he added that the world bank would send experts to help with project preparation and management .
infrastructure renewal borisov , head of the conservative citizens for european development of bulgaria party , came into power last year on a platform of rooting out corruption and crime .
he has made accessing eu aid one of his government 's top priorities and said on tuesday that he would use world bank and eu funds to build around 60 kilometers of highway each year by the end of his term in 2013 .
" we have probably the worst infrastructure in the whole european union , " borisov said .
bulgaria joined the eu in 2007 , and despite significant growth after the fall of communism in 1990 it remains the bloc 's poorest and least-developed member state .
author : andrew bowen -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bulgaria suffers as eu corruption clampdown continues bulgaria has missed the chance to claim 220 million euros -lrb- $ 280 million -rrb- in european union funds because of ongoing corruption problems , the first time an eu state has ever suffered such a loss , officials in brussels sai -lrb- 25.11.2008 -rrb- bulgaria launches first trial for abuse of eu funds a bulgarian court has launched a trial against nine people accused of embezzling millions from european union aid funds .
-lrb- 20.10.2008 -rrb- eu cuts funding to bulgaria for failing to fight organized crime for the first time ever , the european union cut off financial assistance to one of its own members when it ordered a stop to aid to bulgaria over corruption and organized crime connection allegations .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- scathing eu report exposes bulgaria 's high-level corruption in a withering indictment to be released next week , the european commission accuses bulgaria of high-level corruption and maladministration in the handling of eu funds .
the report outlines measures to freeze further aid .
-lrb- 18.07.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
world bank steps up cooperation for development in bulgaria -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de development aid -pipe- 11.08.2010 world bank steps up cooperation for development in bulgaria großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bulgaria 's infrastructure is in desperate need of renewal bulgaria has one of the most outdated infrastructures of the entire european union , and most eu development funding has been suspended because of corruption fears .
but the year-old government is trying to change that . the world bank and bulgaria on tuesday signed an agreement to better cooperate on development projects for the country 's outdated infrastructure .
the memorandum of understanding signed by world bank president robert zoellick and bulgarian prime minister boyko borisov included " accelerating maintenance and investment in roads and railways , " but did not specify the amount of aid the bank would provide .
the support is to come in conjunction with billions of euros from the european union and development organizations .
bulgaria has already been granted seven to 10 billion euros -lrb- $ 9 to 13 billion -rrb- in eu aid , but has only been able to use 7 to 8 percent of that money because of corruption concerns expressed by brussels , zoellick said .
he added that the world bank would send experts to help with project preparation and management .
infrastructure renewal borisov , head of the conservative citizens for european development of bulgaria party , came into power last year on a platform of rooting out corruption and crime .
he has made accessing eu aid one of his government 's top priorities and said on tuesday that he would use world bank and eu funds to build around 60 kilometers of highway each year by the end of his term in 2013 .
" we have probably the worst infrastructure in the whole european union , " borisov said .
bulgaria joined the eu in 2007 , and despite significant growth after the fall of communism in 1990 it remains the bloc 's poorest and least-developed member state .
author : andrew bowen -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bulgaria suffers as eu corruption clampdown continues bulgaria has missed the chance to claim 220 million euros -lrb- $ 280 million -rrb- in european union funds because of ongoing corruption problems , the first time an eu state has ever suffered such a loss , officials in brussels sai -lrb- 25.11.2008 -rrb- bulgaria launches first trial for abuse of eu funds a bulgarian court has launched a trial against nine people accused of embezzling millions from european union aid funds .
-lrb- 20.10.2008 -rrb- eu cuts funding to bulgaria for failing to fight organized crime for the first time ever , the european union cut off financial assistance to one of its own members when it ordered a stop to aid to bulgaria over corruption and organized crime connection allegations .
-lrb- 23.07.2008 -rrb- scathing eu report exposes bulgaria 's high-level corruption in a withering indictment to be released next week , the european commission accuses bulgaria of high-level corruption and maladministration in the handling of eu funds .
the report outlines measures to freeze further aid .
-lrb- 18.07.2008 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tracking the ' ice island ' that broke off greenland -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 11.08.2010 tracking the ' ice island ' that broke off greenland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petermann glacier is constantly changing a 260-square kilometer ice sheet has split off from greenland 's coast and may threaten shipping lanes and oil platforms .
deutsche welle speaks with the canadian ice service researcher who first spotted the " ice island . " deutsche welle talks with trudy wohlleben , the researcher with the canadian ice service who discovered a 260-square kilometer -lrb- 100 square mile -rrb- ice island that has torn away from petermann glacier on greenland 's northwest coast .
it 's feared the massive floating ice sheet could enter shipping lanes or run into oil platforms while drifting south .
deutsche welle : what do you do as an ice forecaster ?
trudy wohlleben : i spend a lot of time analyzing satellite imagery for ice to create charts monitoring ice concentration , type and thickness .
what have you discovered in greenland ?
on the northwest coast there is a glacier , petermann glacier , which is known for calving off large tabular icebergs or ice islands .
we 've been monitoring this glacier for a while expecting a large piece to fall off , and on august 5 a large section actually did break off - much larger than we actually anticipated .
it was about 30 kilometers -lrb- 18.6 miles -rrb- long and 10 kilometers wide .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these nasa photos , taken a week apart , show the ice sheet splitting what is the significance of this ?
usually what happens is once they enter the nares strait they drift southwards with the currents - usually it fragments when it comes south - but the larger pieces can eventually make their way into the shipping lanes off the labrador coast in newfoundland .
even though it takes a year or two to descend that far , we like to put tracking beacons on the large pieces and monitor them for hazards to shipping and to oil platforms .
not all satellites can see through clouds , so sometimes on cloudy days you 'll lose the position .
what we like to do is put a beacon on the ice island ; it sends a signal that satellites can track so we can know its position at all times .
that way we can monitor the rate of drift of the ice island , the speed and its location .
given that ice island calving is a relatively common phenomenon , can you explain why people are so interested in this instance ?
calving of ice islands is indeed quite average .
i think what 's special about this instance is just that it 's so much bigger than any other one that 's calved .
the last large one of this size was back in the ' 60s .
so i think it 's just the sheer size of this ice island which has everyone so excited - and perhaps also that it 's all in one enormous piece .
what exactly did you see when you realized that the ice island had broken off ?
well , it looks like a big blue line through a nice , white glacier on the satellite image .
we essentially then realized that a section has floated off into the ocean .
yeah , it 's quite dramatic if you look at the pictures .
how did you feel when you initially saw the pictures ?
sure , i was excited .
i knew the sea ice community would be excited ; i did n't realize the whole world would get so excited about it !
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the ice island has broken off from the bulk of the glacier what do you think this could mean for the shipping industry and business ?
it 's hard to say .
a similar calving event occurred in 2008 , albeit much , much smaller .
in that case , it broke in july , and it took about a year for it to come down the coast of baffin island .
near frobisher bay - at the south end of baffin island , which is the northern tip of labrador - it broke into hundreds of pieces and then started coming down with the main iceberg pack down the labrador coast .
in that case , the pieces were the size of normal icebergs coming down the coast .
i think this instance , though , because so much more ice has broken off , will produce larger chunks of ice that will come down into the shipping lanes where the oil platforms are .
the danger is - once they get to where the oil platforms are - if the icebergs are too big then the normal methods used to break up the ice as it approaches the platform will have a lot more difficulties .
is it possible that this ice mass will ' ground ' and stay wherever it hits land for decades ?
it is a possibility .
the depth of the ice island is about 55 meters -lrb- 180.4 feet -rrb- .
these things are so deep that they tend to drift not with the wind , but with the currents deeper down .
there is always a chance it will survive and make it all the way south , as the one in 2008 did .
in our profession , this will most certainly mean additional work tracking the ice island and also the fragments as it starts to fracture .
but next year we would have to prepare either warnings or watches for shipping lanes downstream and for the oil platforms .
does this tell us anything about climate change ?
this is a really tricky question .
there are so many factors at work , which makes it hard to link these events to any one specific cause .
there 's the ocean circulation underneath the floating tongue of the glacier and the heat content of the ocean .
and then there are the katabatic winds coming off the greenland ice cap .
all these things play a role , and i am in no place to speculate on any one thing that it could be attributed to .
what does something like this look like ?
if you were standing in the middle of it , you would n't really know you were even on a floating piece of ice .
if you were on a ship , it would look like a big wall of ice rising out of the ocean .
interview : saroja coelho / glb editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de massive ice sheet breaks away from greenland glacier researchers say a floating ice sheet more than four times the size of new york 's manhattan island could eventually enter shipping lanes or run into oil platforms while drifting south .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- a first look inside iceland 's ash wasteland for most europeans , iceland 's volcanic eruption is a bad memory .
but the effects continue to be felt in iceland , where deutsche welle caught a glimpse of a once pristine national park , which is now an ash wasteland .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- climate change already visible on greenland many scientists and governments are talking about what will happen once climate change begins to occur , but on the great island of greenland global warming is n't just a future problem - it 's happening now .
-lrb- 14.08.2009 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week liquid assets : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
automotive evolution - the designers who create the feel of a car a question of mentality : chinese companies in germany green revolution - the freiburg model ceramics - new trends from france stock exchange today in history : © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the road to success -jutta kleinschmidt volkswagen - 12 companies and large ambitions looking ahead - transportation in tomorrow 's world 125 years of the car - the history of motoring stock exchange today in history 1945 : auschwitz liberated © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1795 : the meter is laid down in paris dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
well-wrapped - a house journeys to china studio guest : michael hüther düsseldorf - the song contest as an economic factor energy butler - cutting utility bills made easy pumped storage power plant - ecological energy depot in the black forest © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1989 : honecker resigns © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives fom the heart of europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1818 : " stille nacht , heilige nacht " � silent night , holy © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1949 : election of the first federal president © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live stock exchange today in history 1945 : berlin air lift © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch - leben in deutschland we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1925 : publication of " mein kampf " dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
european ties the queen 's visit has proved to be a landmark in relations between the uk and ireland .
watch the video russia a moscow court postpones an appeal hearing in the case of former oil tycoon mikhail khodorkovsky .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series omar from senegal advocates for refugees on spanish stages .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
set to start christmas is coming early for us president obama with the senate set to back the new start treaty .
watch the video the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with reporters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 2 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany hits in germany at eurosonic 2011 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet cycling 's all the rage listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- feedback should there be more exceptions to ramadan fasting ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
9/11 anniversary your memories how did 9/11 change your thoughts or worldview ?
send a text or photos to dw .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit die woche we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1871 : the paris commune © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live stock exchange today in history 1934 : the " long march " begins © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
education increases ability to cope with dementia , study shows -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de research -pipe- 11.08.2010 education increases ability to cope with dementia , study shows großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : an extra year of education can cut the risk of suffering from dementia by up to 11 percent scientists have puzzled over why people with more education suffer less from dementia .
a new study shows the brains of people who attend school longer compensate better for conditions associated with old-age dementia . several studies over the last 10 years have shown that the longer people stay in school the less likely they are to develop signs of dementia in old age , but the explanation of why this is the case has been unclear .
older people with higher levels of education cope better with the damage to the brain that is associated with old age , according to a report published last month in the journal brain .
a team of british and finnish researchers examined the brains of 872 people who took part in three ageing studies and found that the more educated test subjects suffered fewer outward signs of dementia than less educated subjects , regardless of the actual extent a disease had affected them , according to hannah keage of the university of cambridge 's institute of public health .
" those with longer education had exactly the same pathology , or damage the brain , as those with low education , " said kaege , who is also a co-author of the report .
" they were just able to compensate or cope with that pathology before expressing their syndrome . "
bildunterschrift : the diseases that cause dementia equally affect people regardless of their education education buffers while people 's brains may indeed be damaged by dementia , they do not show outward signs of the illness and can continue their lives normally .
" it may be that more education actually does teach the brain to do various things in different ways and that there is a cognitive reserve there that 's buffering those with higher education if they loose some abilities , " keage added .
how the brain manages to bypass damage associated with old age remains the topic for future studies , the report said , but added that education is one of the factors .
an overall healthy diet and lifestyle also appear to be factors in lowering the risk of suffering from the signs of dementia .
" you can do things to modify how at risk you are to dementia , and there are things you can do throughout your life to change your risk , " keage said .
" it 's certain that education in early life - primary school , secondary school and any university - will reduce your dementia risk . "
the researchers have said that risk of developing dementia decreases by up to 11 percent for each year of additional education .
dementia is associated with impaired cognition and functional disability .
alzheimer 's disease is one of the most well-known types of dementia , but there are many others , including vascular dementia and lewy body dementia .
author : lars bevanger -lrb- sms -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany opens dementia research center in bonn a new research center devoted to the study of dementia will help hundreds of thousands of people who suffer from alzheimer 's and parkinson 's and other diseases , the german research minister said .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german researchers claim alzheimer 's breakthrough german scientists have developed a new enzyme-blocking method which nearly halts the formation of protein deposits associated with alzheimer 's .
still , it could be years before the treatment becomes reality .
-lrb- 29.09.2008 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1917 : ufa established © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week labor migration and budget cosmetics listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1945 : liberation of dachau © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the financial stakes in professional sports have gotten out of hand ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live stock exchange today in history 1916 : first tank in action © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1918 : the murder of the tsar family dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 sky tv 's financial troubles cloud bundesliga season start großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sky has exclusive rights to televise bundesliga games live pay-tv operator sky has suffered losses in the german market despite holding exclusive rights to broadcast bundesliga soccer matches .
with the season primed to start , some club officials are worried about their revenues . with the german bundesliga starting its soccer season in just over a week , media reports indicate a growing wariness among sporting officials as the pay-television operator sky deutschland , which has exclusive live-television broadcasting rights to the games , sinks further into substantial debt .
the german football league -lrb- dfl -rrb- , parent organization of the bundesliga , will earn 1.65 billion euros through television rights from 2009 until 2013 .
some 60 percent of that income comes from sky , and if it is jeopardized , individual clubs may struggle financially .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : reinhard rauball said the bundesliga is keeping an eye on the situation dfl president reinhard rauball recently dismissed concerns , saying : " we 're informed about this and are following the numbers with appropriate interest .
based on what we know as of now , everything is still within reason . "
nevertheless , rauball said the organization had distributed financial information about sky deutschland to each of its 36 professional clubs .
media mogul rupert murdoch 's newscorp owns 45.4 percent of the sky deutschland and has invested at least 750 million euros -lrb- $ 1 billion -rrb- into german pay-tv .
faced this year with losses greater than the 130-170 million euros anticipated , sky deutschland has announced plans to raise an additional 340 million euros -lrb- $ 448 million -rrb- in capital .
similarities to 2002 crisis in 2002 , the bundesliga was faced with a crisis when the kirch group collapsed under debt , leaving the company unable to pay more than 100 million euros for contracted television rights .
politicians floated the idea of bailing out the bundesliga , which did recover , and rights to broadcast the 2002 and 2006 world cup games were eventually transferred to an unaffected kirch subsidiary in switzerland .
one industry analyst familiar with sky deutschland 's operations told deutsche welle a similar crisis is unlikely. even if the broadcaster were to be shuttered , as newscorp would almost certainly do so in an orderly manner .
also , telecommunications giant deutsche telekom would likely be eager to acquire live-broadcasting rights as it is seeks to raise its profile as a content provider .
deutsche telekom currently owns the rights to broadcast bundesliga games over subscriber-based internet-tv bundled with a high-speed internet connection .
they have nearly half the number of sky deutschland 's 2.4 million pay-tv subscribers .
pay-tv small piece of the pie bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the bundesliga pumps 5 billion euros into the economy each year thomas netzer of mckinsey & company , which published a study of the economic impact of the bundesliga in march , said he does n't believe the bundesliga has much to fear .
the study found the league produces an economic added-value of 5.1 billion each year , of which netzer said media commercialization represents 40 percent .
on its own , however , sky represents significantly less than 10 percent of the bundesliga 's overall added value .
also , a significant number of germans watch football in pubs rather than at home .
" on the one hand the percentage of this -lrb- media -rrb- commercialization of the 5 billion euros is fairly high … more than a third , " netzer told deutsche welle .
" on the other hand , the percentage of sky specifically is very manageable .
it 's not as though everything depends on pay-tv .
it 's actually the opposite case – the numbers are quite minimal . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de will germans ever embrace pay-tv ?
pay-tv operator sky deutschland announced it will raise 340 million euros in new capital as profits remain out of reach .
consumers in germany have not embraced pay-tv as they have in the uk and france .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- hugely popular bundesliga proving soccer still has a soul the english premiership may enjoy a huge following , foreign investment , massive tv royalties and some of the world 's best players but the premiership could look to germany for tips on how to keep things real .
-lrb- 26.11.2009 -rrb- europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live stock exchange today in history 1988 : compensation for forced laborers dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tracking the ' ice island ' that broke off greenland -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 11.08.2010 tracking the ' ice island ' that broke off greenland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petermann glacier is constantly changing a 260-square kilometer ice sheet has split off from greenland 's coast and may threaten shipping lanes and oil platforms .
deutsche welle speaks with the canadian ice service researcher who first spotted the " ice island . " deutsche welle talks with trudy wohlleben , the researcher with the canadian ice service who discovered a 260-square kilometer -lrb- 100 square mile -rrb- ice island that has torn away from petermann glacier on greenland 's northwest coast .
it 's feared the massive floating ice sheet could enter shipping lanes or run into oil platforms while drifting south .
deutsche welle : what do you do as an ice forecaster ?
trudy wohlleben : i spend a lot of time analyzing satellite imagery for ice to create charts monitoring ice concentration , type and thickness .
what have you discovered in greenland ?
on the northwest coast there is a glacier , petermann glacier , which is known for calving off large tabular icebergs or ice islands .
we 've been monitoring this glacier for a while expecting a large piece to fall off , and on august 5 a large section actually did break off - much larger than we actually anticipated .
it was about 30 kilometers -lrb- 18.6 miles -rrb- long and 10 kilometers wide .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these nasa photos , taken a week apart , show the ice sheet splitting what is the significance of this ?
usually what happens is once they enter the nares strait they drift southwards with the currents - usually it fragments when it comes south - but the larger pieces can eventually make their way into the shipping lanes off the labrador coast in newfoundland .
even though it takes a year or two to descend that far , we like to put tracking beacons on the large pieces and monitor them for hazards to shipping and to oil platforms .
not all satellites can see through clouds , so sometimes on cloudy days you 'll lose the position .
what we like to do is put a beacon on the ice island ; it sends a signal that satellites can track so we can know its position at all times .
that way we can monitor the rate of drift of the ice island , the speed and its location .
given that ice island calving is a relatively common phenomenon , can you explain why people are so interested in this instance ?
calving of ice islands is indeed quite average .
i think what 's special about this instance is just that it 's so much bigger than any other one that 's calved .
the last large one of this size was back in the ' 60s .
so i think it 's just the sheer size of this ice island which has everyone so excited - and perhaps also that it 's all in one enormous piece .
what exactly did you see when you realized that the ice island had broken off ?
well , it looks like a big blue line through a nice , white glacier on the satellite image .
we essentially then realized that a section has floated off into the ocean .
yeah , it 's quite dramatic if you look at the pictures .
how did you feel when you initially saw the pictures ?
sure , i was excited .
i knew the sea ice community would be excited ; i did n't realize the whole world would get so excited about it !
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the ice island has broken off from the bulk of the glacier what do you think this could mean for the shipping industry and business ?
it 's hard to say .
a similar calving event occurred in 2008 , albeit much , much smaller .
in that case , it broke in july , and it took about a year for it to come down the coast of baffin island .
near frobisher bay - at the south end of baffin island , which is the northern tip of labrador - it broke into hundreds of pieces and then started coming down with the main iceberg pack down the labrador coast .
in that case , the pieces were the size of normal icebergs coming down the coast .
i think this instance , though , because so much more ice has broken off , will produce larger chunks of ice that will come down into the shipping lanes where the oil platforms are .
the danger is - once they get to where the oil platforms are - if the icebergs are too big then the normal methods used to break up the ice as it approaches the platform will have a lot more difficulties .
is it possible that this ice mass will ' ground ' and stay wherever it hits land for decades ?
it is a possibility .
the depth of the ice island is about 55 meters -lrb- 180.4 feet -rrb- .
these things are so deep that they tend to drift not with the wind , but with the currents deeper down .
there is always a chance it will survive and make it all the way south , as the one in 2008 did .
in our profession , this will most certainly mean additional work tracking the ice island and also the fragments as it starts to fracture .
but next year we would have to prepare either warnings or watches for shipping lanes downstream and for the oil platforms .
does this tell us anything about climate change ?
this is a really tricky question .
there are so many factors at work , which makes it hard to link these events to any one specific cause .
there 's the ocean circulation underneath the floating tongue of the glacier and the heat content of the ocean .
and then there are the katabatic winds coming off the greenland ice cap .
all these things play a role , and i am in no place to speculate on any one thing that it could be attributed to .
what does something like this look like ?
if you were standing in the middle of it , you would n't really know you were even on a floating piece of ice .
if you were on a ship , it would look like a big wall of ice rising out of the ocean .
interview : saroja coelho / glb editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de massive ice sheet breaks away from greenland glacier researchers say a floating ice sheet more than four times the size of new york 's manhattan island could eventually enter shipping lanes or run into oil platforms while drifting south .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- a first look inside iceland 's ash wasteland for most europeans , iceland 's volcanic eruption is a bad memory .
but the effects continue to be felt in iceland , where deutsche welle caught a glimpse of a once pristine national park , which is now an ash wasteland .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- climate change already visible on greenland many scientists and governments are talking about what will happen once climate change begins to occur , but on the great island of greenland global warming is n't just a future problem - it 's happening now .
-lrb- 14.08.2009 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
tracking the ' ice island ' that broke off greenland -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 11.08.2010 tracking the ' ice island ' that broke off greenland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petermann glacier is constantly changing a 260-square kilometer ice sheet has split off from greenland 's coast and may threaten shipping lanes and oil platforms .
deutsche welle speaks with the canadian ice service researcher who first spotted the " ice island . " deutsche welle talks with trudy wohlleben , the researcher with the canadian ice service who discovered a 260-square kilometer -lrb- 100 square mile -rrb- ice island that has torn away from petermann glacier on greenland 's northwest coast .
it 's feared the massive floating ice sheet could enter shipping lanes or run into oil platforms while drifting south .
deutsche welle : what do you do as an ice forecaster ?
trudy wohlleben : i spend a lot of time analyzing satellite imagery for ice to create charts monitoring ice concentration , type and thickness .
what have you discovered in greenland ?
on the northwest coast there is a glacier , petermann glacier , which is known for calving off large tabular icebergs or ice islands .
we 've been monitoring this glacier for a while expecting a large piece to fall off , and on august 5 a large section actually did break off - much larger than we actually anticipated .
it was about 30 kilometers -lrb- 18.6 miles -rrb- long and 10 kilometers wide .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these nasa photos , taken a week apart , show the ice sheet splitting what is the significance of this ?
usually what happens is once they enter the nares strait they drift southwards with the currents - usually it fragments when it comes south - but the larger pieces can eventually make their way into the shipping lanes off the labrador coast in newfoundland .
even though it takes a year or two to descend that far , we like to put tracking beacons on the large pieces and monitor them for hazards to shipping and to oil platforms .
not all satellites can see through clouds , so sometimes on cloudy days you 'll lose the position .
what we like to do is put a beacon on the ice island ; it sends a signal that satellites can track so we can know its position at all times .
that way we can monitor the rate of drift of the ice island , the speed and its location .
given that ice island calving is a relatively common phenomenon , can you explain why people are so interested in this instance ?
calving of ice islands is indeed quite average .
i think what 's special about this instance is just that it 's so much bigger than any other one that 's calved .
the last large one of this size was back in the ' 60s .
so i think it 's just the sheer size of this ice island which has everyone so excited - and perhaps also that it 's all in one enormous piece .
what exactly did you see when you realized that the ice island had broken off ?
well , it looks like a big blue line through a nice , white glacier on the satellite image .
we essentially then realized that a section has floated off into the ocean .
yeah , it 's quite dramatic if you look at the pictures .
how did you feel when you initially saw the pictures ?
sure , i was excited .
i knew the sea ice community would be excited ; i did n't realize the whole world would get so excited about it !
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the ice island has broken off from the bulk of the glacier what do you think this could mean for the shipping industry and business ?
it 's hard to say .
a similar calving event occurred in 2008 , albeit much , much smaller .
in that case , it broke in july , and it took about a year for it to come down the coast of baffin island .
near frobisher bay - at the south end of baffin island , which is the northern tip of labrador - it broke into hundreds of pieces and then started coming down with the main iceberg pack down the labrador coast .
in that case , the pieces were the size of normal icebergs coming down the coast .
i think this instance , though , because so much more ice has broken off , will produce larger chunks of ice that will come down into the shipping lanes where the oil platforms are .
the danger is - once they get to where the oil platforms are - if the icebergs are too big then the normal methods used to break up the ice as it approaches the platform will have a lot more difficulties .
is it possible that this ice mass will ' ground ' and stay wherever it hits land for decades ?
it is a possibility .
the depth of the ice island is about 55 meters -lrb- 180.4 feet -rrb- .
these things are so deep that they tend to drift not with the wind , but with the currents deeper down .
there is always a chance it will survive and make it all the way south , as the one in 2008 did .
in our profession , this will most certainly mean additional work tracking the ice island and also the fragments as it starts to fracture .
but next year we would have to prepare either warnings or watches for shipping lanes downstream and for the oil platforms .
does this tell us anything about climate change ?
this is a really tricky question .
there are so many factors at work , which makes it hard to link these events to any one specific cause .
there 's the ocean circulation underneath the floating tongue of the glacier and the heat content of the ocean .
and then there are the katabatic winds coming off the greenland ice cap .
all these things play a role , and i am in no place to speculate on any one thing that it could be attributed to .
what does something like this look like ?
if you were standing in the middle of it , you would n't really know you were even on a floating piece of ice .
if you were on a ship , it would look like a big wall of ice rising out of the ocean .
interview : saroja coelho / glb editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de massive ice sheet breaks away from greenland glacier researchers say a floating ice sheet more than four times the size of new york 's manhattan island could eventually enter shipping lanes or run into oil platforms while drifting south .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- a first look inside iceland 's ash wasteland for most europeans , iceland 's volcanic eruption is a bad memory .
but the effects continue to be felt in iceland , where deutsche welle caught a glimpse of a once pristine national park , which is now an ash wasteland .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- climate change already visible on greenland many scientists and governments are talking about what will happen once climate change begins to occur , but on the great island of greenland global warming is n't just a future problem - it 's happening now .
-lrb- 14.08.2009 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
politics pressure mounting thai prime minister-elect yingluck shinawatra faces big challenges in office .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live kino we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week money , power and heavy metal listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1957 : treaty of rome © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media fukushima human error a report for the iaea points to human error as the cause of japan 's worst nuclear disaster .
politics police in bangladesh have detained many activists following a strike called by the opposition .
sultana kamal speaks about the political issue behind the arrests .
biodiversity saving the rare saola wwf says the establishment of a nature reserve in vietnam has brought new survival hopes for saolas .
employment indecent concentration of wealth is making life more difficult for common people .
thetis mangahas speaks on the employment situation in asia listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 10.06.11 hundreds arrested in bangladesh after strike against electoral change " red wedding " : a gruesome secret of the khmer rouge in cambodia money for garbage at mount everest podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile security concerns the sipri yearbook 2011 highlights growing security concerns linked to natural resources .
listen to the interview © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media japanese economy japan 's earthquake and tsunami are likely to affect the japanese economy in the coming weeks .
the world bank 's representative in washington , vikram nehru , believes it all depends on how well the japanese cope with the nculear issue libya air strikes china 's state media condemned military strikes on libya , saying they are a western grab for power .
gui hao , china expert at deutsche welle 's asia department , talks about the implications of the enhanced rhetoric march asia quiz quiz of the month digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.03.11 tibet exile government accepts dalai lama 's retirement gurkhas in britain fight for their rights dark times ahead for indian ' god-men ' podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 interview suu kyi calls for more support from europe the burmese civil rights activist talks to dw in an exclusive interview .
december asia quiz quiz of the month exhibition celebrating indian waste collectors a young german photographer has focused on waste and waste collectors in india .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 17.12.10 obama 's afpak strategy review japan revises security policy wikileaks reveals kashmir torture reports podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online asia compact join us on facebook !
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- feedback have you experienced the heat wave in russia ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio drugs france 's socialist party pushes to legalize cannabis as the country heads toward elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the audio nuclear energy what is evil ?
renowned british intellectual terry eagleton looks it squarely in the face .
watch the video europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1972 : terrorist attack at olympic games in munich © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 01.10.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live stock exchange today in history 1949 : founding of the gdr © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1938 : kristallnacht © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1991 : " operation desert storm " begins © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1833 : kaspar hauser dies © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1972 : motion of no confidence against willy brandt © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1869 : margarine patented dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live european journal - the magazine from brussels we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live stock exchange today in history 1886 : ludwig ii taken prisoner dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga - der internationale talk we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 1 listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series cornelius in liberia changes lives by talking about sex on the radio .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
human rights two bulgarian nurses reflect on their eight years spent falsely incarcerated in libyan jails .
watch the video podcast series petra in prague makes life a little cheerier for kids who live in homes .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress getting sick is not an option for manila 's poor listen live chile celebrates the world watches the drama unfold as the trapped chilean miners are hauled to safety .
watch the video life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live journey to mecca follow dw reporter ali almakhlafi on the hajj and get an inside view of the muslim pilgrimage .
ali 's journal : day 3 focus eye on defense nato meets in lisbon from nov .
19-20 for a summit to discuss the new challenges facing the alliance .
focus free at last focus on democracy : myanmar leader aung san suu kyi is free after seven years of house arrest .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de eastern europe -pipe- 11.08.2010 minsk , moscow likely to mend fences ahead of elections in belarus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : putin is keeping his eye on lukashenko relations between russia and belarus have been extremely testy this summer .
but as belarus president alexander lukashenko stands for reelection , the two sides have few options other than letting bygones be bygones . belarus has traditionally been one of russia 's closest partners - indeed the two countries have flirted for years with the idea of forming a political union .
but one would n't have known that necessarily in the summer of 2010 , as squabbles broke out over natural gas , a customs union and the geopolitics of the caucasus . the sniping came to a head when russian tv ran a documentary about president alexander lukashenko entitled " the godfather , " claiming to reveal criminal activities by the belarusian leader . in response , lukashenko staged a friendly public meeting with georgian president mikhail saakashvili - a leader highly disliked by the kremlin .
he has also dragged his feet on officially recognizing south ossetia and abkhazia - the two areas that broke away , with russian encouragement , from georgia in 2008 . lukashenko has hinted he may want to take the country he has ruled since 1994 closer to the west .
meanwhile , there have been noises coming from moscow that russia could potentially support an alternative candidate when belarus holds its presidential elections in early 2011 . gas and personalities the tensions between the two countries have various causes .
for one , russian-belarusian relations have suffered under moscow 's recent policies of reducing subsidies to allies .
this has chiefly been in the form of demanding higher rates for supplies of natural gas , which have been sold at below-market prices . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : turning off the gas is one lever the kremlin can use to ensure pliancy " the ukraine has already felt this , being forced to accept price hikes before getting them lowered again in return for political concessions , " alexander rahr , an eastern european expert at the german society for foreign policy , told deutsche welle .
" i think belarus is about to experience the same thing . " in june , moscow cut gas supplies to belarus for four days , claiming that minsk had n't paid its bills .
but the cut-off was also interpreted as a warning to lukashenko , whom rahr credits with successfully pursuing " an autonomous position " and making " autonomous demands . " the current tension can be traced to a long-running personal antipathy between the belarusian president and russian prime minister vladimir putin , as well . " there 's no love lost between lukashenko and putin , who 's the one really calling the shots in russia , " explained jakub kulhanek , head of the eastern europe program at the association for international affairs in prague .
" under boris yeltsin , lukashenko was thinking of running for president in a potential russian-belarusian union .
putin put an end to that .
it then became clear to lukashenko that belarus would lose out in such a union .
he wants to keep belarus independent so as to retain his own power . " belarus also delayed implementing a planned customs union with russia and kazakhstan , before finally doing so in early july .
this was interpreted as an intended message from lukashenko to moscow that belarus would not be bullied . the testing of strength is taking place as lukashenko gets ready to stand in an election that , according to belarusian law , has to be held by february 7 , 2011 . marriage of necessity minsk and moscow may not like one another much at present , but neither have very many alternatives . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : per capita income in belarus is around $ 6,000 a year " lukashenko has been toying with the idea of moving belarus away from russia and closer to the european union , and there 's a rumor that moscow is considering supporting another candidate , " kulhanek said .
" but they 're probably condemned to working together . " belarus is heavily dependent on russia for imports of raw materials and for exports of its own goods .
and lukashenko , who is often called the last dictator in europe and who himself has described his style of leadership as " authoritarian , " hardly enjoys the best of reputations in western europe .
indeed , he has been banned from even traveling to the eu in the past . meanwhile , russia needs allies and would hardly consider it beneficial to expend the energy needed to topple lukashenko . " as long as lukashenko can maintain a sort of economic well-being in belarus , he can hardly be challenged , " kulhanek told deutsche welle .
" only moscow could decide to make life difficult for him by cutting all its subsidies .
but that would alienate the belarusian public and is n't in russia 's best interests . " so the kremlin is likely to live with lukashenko , just as the belarusian president is expected to de-escalate this summer 's media row with moscow , according to analysts . change you ca n't believe in another entity that , barring the unforeseeable , lacks any real alternatives is the belarusian electorate . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lukashenko 's last election win was considered dubious belarus is arguably the most soviet-style of the former soviet republics , with more than half of the population being employed by the state .
even on the web , freedom of speech is restricted , if indeed existent at all . " the belarusian internet does n't have a lot going for it in terms of political opposition because it 's totally controlled by the state , " kulhanek explained .
" if you want to start a website , you need to register it with the government . " moreover , the belarusian political opposition is so fragmented and ineffective that it 's considered more a source of legitimating lukashenko 's rule than a locus of viable alternatives . in the last presidential election in 2006 , lukashenko boasted that he had instructed authorities to give him 86 percent of the vote - and not the 93 percent he said he had actually received .
this was intended to make the result more plausible to western observers . eu heads of state and human rights organizations were nearly universal in condemning the vote as neither free nor fair . " it 's a farce , " kulhanek said .
" everyone knows that , also in the west .
but that 's the way the cookie crumbles . " as a result , unless there 's a very unlikely russian intervention or the 55-year-old lukashenko develops health problems , belarusians are in for seven years of more of the same . author : jefferson chase editor : sabina casagrande send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de a free-thinking belarusian university can only operate outside of belarus president alexander lukashenko of belarus shut down the european humanities university in 2004 - he felt it was too independent .
but the university reopened in lithuania and is now a magnet for students from belarus .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- ukraine poses new gas competition to belarus as waters calm with russia russia and belarus have kissed and made up after a dispute that resulted in cutting gas supplies to europe .
but belarus may see increased competition coming from ukraine , which wants to form a partnership with the eu .
-lrb- 02.07.2010 -rrb- belarus says russia gas debt paid in full russia has imposed further gas supply cuts on belarus in a dispute over unpaid fuel bills .
but minsk says it has paid the sum in full and has threatened to block the transit of russian gas to the rest of europe .
-lrb- 23.06.2010 -rrb- feedback where do you think relations between russia and belarus are heading ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
tornado terror america 's south is in shock following the havoc wreaked by a series of deadly tornadoes .
watch the video focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 11.08.2010 heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blaze fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed . economists are suggesting the current heat wave in russia could cost the economy between 5 and 12 billion euros -lrb- $ 7-15 billion -rrb- and undermine the current modest economic revival in the country .
the figure accounts for immediate losses in the agricultural , industrial and services sector , but does not factor in losses that stem from a spike in deaths and illnesses .
the heat wave has been accompanied by a persistent drought , and forest fires which have caused a thick smog to descend over the capital moscow .
several leading russian industrial firms have shut down production during the heat wave to spare workers the consequences of the high temperatures .
toxic smog from the forest and peat fires is keeping shoppers away from moscow 's shopping malls , which form the bulk of russia 's retail business .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a dense smog over moscow is hitting retail and service industries before the temperatures hit record highs , the economy had been expected to grow about 4 percent in 2010 .
land destroyed , prices rocket an estimated 10 million hectares -lrb- 25 million acres -rrb- of agricultural land has been destroyed due to fire and drought .
alexander morozov , chief economist for russia and the cis at hsbc , expects the heat wave and its aftermath to shave 1 percentage point off gdp growth .
" the losses in agriculture now look more serious , and i expect that will contribute 0.5 percentage points .
the remaining half a percent will come from other sectors - lower industrial output , lower demand and lower productivity , " he said .
world wheat prices have rocketed at the fastest rate in over 30 years , and there is speculation of a food crisis .
prime minister vladimir putin has banned grain exports in an attempt to keep domestic food costs down .
more expensive grain could also push up animal feed costs and force farmers to slaughter livestock .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : large swathes of land have been reduced to wasteland battling the fires russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany sends respirator masks to smog-choked moscow germany is sending 100,000 respirator masks to moscow where wildfires have led to a dramatic rise in toxic air pollution .
as hundreds of fires rage around the city , residents are trying to escape the choking smog .
-lrb- 08.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 - the cultural magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de women -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around 40,000 women and children flee to shelters yearly women 's shelters in germany fear a court ruling to grant unwed fathers custody will put abused women in greater danger .
others hailed the federal constitutional court 's decision as a victory for single fathers . germany 's women 's shelters have joined the country 's largest single parents ' organization in opposing increased rights for unmarried fathers .
until now , the fathers of children born out of wedlock in germany had no legally guaranteed custody rights .
mothers had the right to withhold joint custody , leaving the father to sue the mother for visitation rights .
but edith schwab , head of germany 's association of single mothers and fathers , says the federal constitutional court 's decision last week to grant custody rights to unwed fathers is bad news for single mothers , who themselves will now have to fight to keep unfit fathers from raising their children .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : now courts can award single fathers full custody " mothers who refuse to share custody have very , very good reasons for their decision - meaning that the potential for conflict between the parents is so great that the mother has rightly chosen to deny joint custody , " she said .
worse yet - according to heike herold , who works with an organization that coordinates women 's shelters across germany - in abuse scenarios , increasing fathers ' rights can undermine the safety of mother and child .
" it becomes problematic when there 's domestic violence , but also when you think of cases in which children are conceived by rape , " herold told deutsche welle .
" when you think of the legislature automatically giving these fathers custody , it becomes quite critical . "
a victory for single fathers on august 3 , germany 's constitutional court ruled that " the current legal situation excessively encroached on paternity rights for fathers of children born out of wedlock , because they could only take part in raising the child with the mother 's consent , " according to spokeswoman judith blohm .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the constitutional court ruled that fathers should have the same rights as mothers blohm said that until now " the fathers also did n't have the right to have a court determine what arrangement was in the best interest of the child . "
the case for increased rights was mounted by a father who had no way to prevent the mother of his child from moving to another city and taking the child with her .
the decision , which is expected to be drafted into law when the legislature returns from its summer break , was heralded as a victory for fathers ' rights .
thorsten nitz , an underground train driver , was one of the many fathers across germany who welcomed the decision .
nitz , who has been denied custody of his children since splitting up with his former partner , said he was " relieved when the ruling came , " adding , " it 's been overdue for years . "
harder to cut ties with abusive partners herold sees the flipside to this new right .
although she welcomes increased paternity rights in principle , she feels there needs to be a system in place to review fathers ' suitability before granting them joint custody .
the decision makes it much more difficult for unmarried women to cut off ties with abusive partners , herold said , adding that unmarried women who left abusive relationships " did n't have the problem that their partner , as the biological father of the child , necessarily had access to the child as part of his visitation and custody rights . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : increased fathers ' rights could threaten abused mothers ' anonymity under the new law , she says , a victim of abuse will " potentially have to mount a court case to protect herself and her children . "
" giving the father custody rights also means that the mother can not decide alone to move to another city or switch her child 's school , " herold added .
tracking down mothers through their children as it is , she said , visitation rights alone often give abusive fathers the opportunity to track down their child 's mother , forcing abused mothers to flee from one halfway home to the next .
herold added that , in cases of children born within wedlock , german courts already assume that contact to the father is nearly always in the child 's best interest .
she worries that more children will now have to live with abusive fathers .
" we know from experience that many family courts operate on the premise that joint custody is the new way of doing things .
they ask the parents to ‘ please settle their disputes in the interest of the child ' - but that does n't work when one side uses violence against the other , " she said . according to herold 's shelter coordination network , some 20,000 abused women seek shelter in halfway houses every year in germany - with another 20,000 children accompanying them .
germany 's federal family ministry estimates that a quarter of the country 's female population will be physically abused by a sexual partner .
author : david levitz editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's highest court strengthens unmarried fathers ' rights the german constitutional court decided on tuesday to give unmarried fathers the right to sue for joint custody of their children .
the new ruling brings germany in line with the european court of human rights .
-lrb- 03.08.2010 -rrb- ten eu countries move to streamline divorce process the eu has brought free movement of goods , services and relationships across borders .
but when those international couples divorce , those borders can make it even more complicated .
some eu nations want to change that .
-lrb- 25.03.2010 -rrb- germany says it will improve rights for single dads the german government has said it will make changes to its custody laws after the european court of human rights upheld an unmarried german father 's right to joint custody of his daughter .
-lrb- 04.12.2009 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the court 's decision to increase fathers ' rights ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de women -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around 40,000 women and children flee to shelters yearly women 's shelters in germany fear a court ruling to grant unwed fathers custody will put abused women in greater danger .
others hailed the federal constitutional court 's decision as a victory for single fathers . germany 's women 's shelters have joined the country 's largest single parents ' organization in opposing increased rights for unmarried fathers .
until now , the fathers of children born out of wedlock in germany had no legally guaranteed custody rights .
mothers had the right to withhold joint custody , leaving the father to sue the mother for visitation rights .
but edith schwab , head of germany 's association of single mothers and fathers , says the federal constitutional court 's decision last week to grant custody rights to unwed fathers is bad news for single mothers , who themselves will now have to fight to keep unfit fathers from raising their children .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : now courts can award single fathers full custody " mothers who refuse to share custody have very , very good reasons for their decision - meaning that the potential for conflict between the parents is so great that the mother has rightly chosen to deny joint custody , " she said .
worse yet - according to heike herold , who works with an organization that coordinates women 's shelters across germany - in abuse scenarios , increasing fathers ' rights can undermine the safety of mother and child .
" it becomes problematic when there 's domestic violence , but also when you think of cases in which children are conceived by rape , " herold told deutsche welle .
" when you think of the legislature automatically giving these fathers custody , it becomes quite critical . "
a victory for single fathers on august 3 , germany 's constitutional court ruled that " the current legal situation excessively encroached on paternity rights for fathers of children born out of wedlock , because they could only take part in raising the child with the mother 's consent , " according to spokeswoman judith blohm .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the constitutional court ruled that fathers should have the same rights as mothers blohm said that until now " the fathers also did n't have the right to have a court determine what arrangement was in the best interest of the child . "
the case for increased rights was mounted by a father who had no way to prevent the mother of his child from moving to another city and taking the child with her .
the decision , which is expected to be drafted into law when the legislature returns from its summer break , was heralded as a victory for fathers ' rights .
thorsten nitz , an underground train driver , was one of the many fathers across germany who welcomed the decision .
nitz , who has been denied custody of his children since splitting up with his former partner , said he was " relieved when the ruling came , " adding , " it 's been overdue for years . "
harder to cut ties with abusive partners herold sees the flipside to this new right .
although she welcomes increased paternity rights in principle , she feels there needs to be a system in place to review fathers ' suitability before granting them joint custody .
the decision makes it much more difficult for unmarried women to cut off ties with abusive partners , herold said , adding that unmarried women who left abusive relationships " did n't have the problem that their partner , as the biological father of the child , necessarily had access to the child as part of his visitation and custody rights . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : increased fathers ' rights could threaten abused mothers ' anonymity under the new law , she says , a victim of abuse will " potentially have to mount a court case to protect herself and her children . "
" giving the father custody rights also means that the mother can not decide alone to move to another city or switch her child 's school , " herold added .
tracking down mothers through their children as it is , she said , visitation rights alone often give abusive fathers the opportunity to track down their child 's mother , forcing abused mothers to flee from one halfway home to the next .
herold added that , in cases of children born within wedlock , german courts already assume that contact to the father is nearly always in the child 's best interest .
she worries that more children will now have to live with abusive fathers .
" we know from experience that many family courts operate on the premise that joint custody is the new way of doing things .
they ask the parents to ‘ please settle their disputes in the interest of the child ' - but that does n't work when one side uses violence against the other , " she said . according to herold 's shelter coordination network , some 20,000 abused women seek shelter in halfway houses every year in germany - with another 20,000 children accompanying them .
germany 's federal family ministry estimates that a quarter of the country 's female population will be physically abused by a sexual partner .
author : david levitz editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's highest court strengthens unmarried fathers ' rights the german constitutional court decided on tuesday to give unmarried fathers the right to sue for joint custody of their children .
the new ruling brings germany in line with the european court of human rights .
-lrb- 03.08.2010 -rrb- ten eu countries move to streamline divorce process the eu has brought free movement of goods , services and relationships across borders .
but when those international couples divorce , those borders can make it even more complicated .
some eu nations want to change that .
-lrb- 25.03.2010 -rrb- germany says it will improve rights for single dads the german government has said it will make changes to its custody laws after the european court of human rights upheld an unmarried german father 's right to joint custody of his daughter .
-lrb- 04.12.2009 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the court 's decision to increase fathers ' rights ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de women -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around 40,000 women and children flee to shelters yearly women 's shelters in germany fear a court ruling to grant unwed fathers custody will put abused women in greater danger .
others hailed the federal constitutional court 's decision as a victory for single fathers . germany 's women 's shelters have joined the country 's largest single parents ' organization in opposing increased rights for unmarried fathers .
until now , the fathers of children born out of wedlock in germany had no legally guaranteed custody rights .
mothers had the right to withhold joint custody , leaving the father to sue the mother for visitation rights .
but edith schwab , head of germany 's association of single mothers and fathers , says the federal constitutional court 's decision last week to grant custody rights to unwed fathers is bad news for single mothers , who themselves will now have to fight to keep unfit fathers from raising their children .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : now courts can award single fathers full custody " mothers who refuse to share custody have very , very good reasons for their decision - meaning that the potential for conflict between the parents is so great that the mother has rightly chosen to deny joint custody , " she said .
worse yet - according to heike herold , who works with an organization that coordinates women 's shelters across germany - in abuse scenarios , increasing fathers ' rights can undermine the safety of mother and child .
" it becomes problematic when there 's domestic violence , but also when you think of cases in which children are conceived by rape , " herold told deutsche welle .
" when you think of the legislature automatically giving these fathers custody , it becomes quite critical . "
a victory for single fathers on august 3 , germany 's constitutional court ruled that " the current legal situation excessively encroached on paternity rights for fathers of children born out of wedlock , because they could only take part in raising the child with the mother 's consent , " according to spokeswoman judith blohm .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the constitutional court ruled that fathers should have the same rights as mothers blohm said that until now " the fathers also did n't have the right to have a court determine what arrangement was in the best interest of the child . "
the case for increased rights was mounted by a father who had no way to prevent the mother of his child from moving to another city and taking the child with her .
the decision , which is expected to be drafted into law when the legislature returns from its summer break , was heralded as a victory for fathers ' rights .
thorsten nitz , an underground train driver , was one of the many fathers across germany who welcomed the decision .
nitz , who has been denied custody of his children since splitting up with his former partner , said he was " relieved when the ruling came , " adding , " it 's been overdue for years . "
harder to cut ties with abusive partners herold sees the flipside to this new right .
although she welcomes increased paternity rights in principle , she feels there needs to be a system in place to review fathers ' suitability before granting them joint custody .
the decision makes it much more difficult for unmarried women to cut off ties with abusive partners , herold said , adding that unmarried women who left abusive relationships " did n't have the problem that their partner , as the biological father of the child , necessarily had access to the child as part of his visitation and custody rights . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : increased fathers ' rights could threaten abused mothers ' anonymity under the new law , she says , a victim of abuse will " potentially have to mount a court case to protect herself and her children . "
" giving the father custody rights also means that the mother can not decide alone to move to another city or switch her child 's school , " herold added .
tracking down mothers through their children as it is , she said , visitation rights alone often give abusive fathers the opportunity to track down their child 's mother , forcing abused mothers to flee from one halfway home to the next .
herold added that , in cases of children born within wedlock , german courts already assume that contact to the father is nearly always in the child 's best interest .
she worries that more children will now have to live with abusive fathers .
" we know from experience that many family courts operate on the premise that joint custody is the new way of doing things .
they ask the parents to ‘ please settle their disputes in the interest of the child ' - but that does n't work when one side uses violence against the other , " she said . according to herold 's shelter coordination network , some 20,000 abused women seek shelter in halfway houses every year in germany - with another 20,000 children accompanying them .
germany 's federal family ministry estimates that a quarter of the country 's female population will be physically abused by a sexual partner .
author : david levitz editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's highest court strengthens unmarried fathers ' rights the german constitutional court decided on tuesday to give unmarried fathers the right to sue for joint custody of their children .
the new ruling brings germany in line with the european court of human rights .
-lrb- 03.08.2010 -rrb- ten eu countries move to streamline divorce process the eu has brought free movement of goods , services and relationships across borders .
but when those international couples divorce , those borders can make it even more complicated .
some eu nations want to change that .
-lrb- 25.03.2010 -rrb- germany says it will improve rights for single dads the german government has said it will make changes to its custody laws after the european court of human rights upheld an unmarried german father 's right to joint custody of his daughter .
-lrb- 04.12.2009 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the court 's decision to increase fathers ' rights ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - news with reporters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de women -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around 40,000 women and children flee to shelters yearly women 's shelters in germany fear a court ruling to grant unwed fathers custody will put abused women in greater danger .
others hailed the federal constitutional court 's decision as a victory for single fathers . germany 's women 's shelters have joined the country 's largest single parents ' organization in opposing increased rights for unmarried fathers .
until now , the fathers of children born out of wedlock in germany had no legally guaranteed custody rights .
mothers had the right to withhold joint custody , leaving the father to sue the mother for visitation rights .
but edith schwab , head of germany 's association of single mothers and fathers , says the federal constitutional court 's decision last week to grant custody rights to unwed fathers is bad news for single mothers , who themselves will now have to fight to keep unfit fathers from raising their children .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : now courts can award single fathers full custody " mothers who refuse to share custody have very , very good reasons for their decision - meaning that the potential for conflict between the parents is so great that the mother has rightly chosen to deny joint custody , " she said .
worse yet - according to heike herold , who works with an organization that coordinates women 's shelters across germany - in abuse scenarios , increasing fathers ' rights can undermine the safety of mother and child .
" it becomes problematic when there 's domestic violence , but also when you think of cases in which children are conceived by rape , " herold told deutsche welle .
" when you think of the legislature automatically giving these fathers custody , it becomes quite critical . "
a victory for single fathers on august 3 , germany 's constitutional court ruled that " the current legal situation excessively encroached on paternity rights for fathers of children born out of wedlock , because they could only take part in raising the child with the mother 's consent , " according to spokeswoman judith blohm .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the constitutional court ruled that fathers should have the same rights as mothers blohm said that until now " the fathers also did n't have the right to have a court determine what arrangement was in the best interest of the child . "
the case for increased rights was mounted by a father who had no way to prevent the mother of his child from moving to another city and taking the child with her .
the decision , which is expected to be drafted into law when the legislature returns from its summer break , was heralded as a victory for fathers ' rights .
thorsten nitz , an underground train driver , was one of the many fathers across germany who welcomed the decision .
nitz , who has been denied custody of his children since splitting up with his former partner , said he was " relieved when the ruling came , " adding , " it 's been overdue for years . "
harder to cut ties with abusive partners herold sees the flipside to this new right .
although she welcomes increased paternity rights in principle , she feels there needs to be a system in place to review fathers ' suitability before granting them joint custody .
the decision makes it much more difficult for unmarried women to cut off ties with abusive partners , herold said , adding that unmarried women who left abusive relationships " did n't have the problem that their partner , as the biological father of the child , necessarily had access to the child as part of his visitation and custody rights . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : increased fathers ' rights could threaten abused mothers ' anonymity under the new law , she says , a victim of abuse will " potentially have to mount a court case to protect herself and her children . "
" giving the father custody rights also means that the mother can not decide alone to move to another city or switch her child 's school , " herold added .
tracking down mothers through their children as it is , she said , visitation rights alone often give abusive fathers the opportunity to track down their child 's mother , forcing abused mothers to flee from one halfway home to the next .
herold added that , in cases of children born within wedlock , german courts already assume that contact to the father is nearly always in the child 's best interest .
she worries that more children will now have to live with abusive fathers .
" we know from experience that many family courts operate on the premise that joint custody is the new way of doing things .
they ask the parents to ‘ please settle their disputes in the interest of the child ' - but that does n't work when one side uses violence against the other , " she said . according to herold 's shelter coordination network , some 20,000 abused women seek shelter in halfway houses every year in germany - with another 20,000 children accompanying them .
germany 's federal family ministry estimates that a quarter of the country 's female population will be physically abused by a sexual partner .
author : david levitz editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's highest court strengthens unmarried fathers ' rights the german constitutional court decided on tuesday to give unmarried fathers the right to sue for joint custody of their children .
the new ruling brings germany in line with the european court of human rights .
-lrb- 03.08.2010 -rrb- ten eu countries move to streamline divorce process the eu has brought free movement of goods , services and relationships across borders .
but when those international couples divorce , those borders can make it even more complicated .
some eu nations want to change that .
-lrb- 25.03.2010 -rrb- germany says it will improve rights for single dads the german government has said it will make changes to its custody laws after the european court of human rights upheld an unmarried german father 's right to joint custody of his daughter .
-lrb- 04.12.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian wildfires spread to nuclear contaminated chernobyl area -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian wildfires spread to nuclear contaminated chernobyl area großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : more than 7,600 square kilometers have been scorched by the fires a forest watchdog said wednesday the russian wildfires have already raged across areas contaminated by the chernobyl nuclear disaster .
earlier , emergency officials said they were starting to get the fires under control . fires have blazed across hundreds of hectares in areas contaminated by the 1986 chernobyl nuclear disaster , an official from the russian forest watchdog roslesozaschita said wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 665 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official from the group told the interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- nuclear -rsb- contamination , there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? " added the official in response to denials earlier this week that the fires had reached the bryansk region .
there are fears that radioactive soil in contaminated areas could be swirled into the air along with ash .
the environmental group greenpeace on tuesday accused russian authorities of downplaying the radioactive danger , saying that 20 fires could be seen raging in contaminated areas on satellite photos .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : moscow has been blanketed by thick smog from the fires for days " the elevated radioactive radiation will not lead to new contamination as with chernobyl , " said greenpeace activist vladimir chuprov .
" nevertheless , smaller radioactive quantities should not be underestimated , " he said .
there have been signs of improvement on the ground however , with emergency officials saying the total area of the wildfires had halved since early tuesday .
but authorities also said the number of spot fires had increased by 55 to 612 .
government under fire the fresh concerns come as the russian government and prime minister vladimir putin were sharply criticized by the country 's press over its reaction to the natural disaster .
" his pr engineers can think of nothing more other than to yet again sit him behind the controls of an aircraft , " leading business daily vedomosti commented , referring to reports putin had flown a water bombing jet to douse fires in one of the worst-affected regions .
" this is a tunnel vision of the pr makers who believe that a tv picture of putin behind the wheel of something is an eternal panacea for falling ratings , " it continued .
the usually pro-kremlin daily moskovsky komsomolets wrote sarcastically that the " russian authorities are heroically -lrb- if you believe the television reports -rrb- fighting the forest fires . "
" they are fighting the fires , having allowed these fires right from the start to reach a catastrophic magnitude , " it added .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of firefighters have been deployed to fight the blazes firefighters continue the battle russian firefighters are continuing to try and control wildfire blazes that have sprung up due to the heat and the drought .
an area 10 times that of new york city , more than 7,600 square kilometers -lrb- 2,934.4 square miles -rrb- , has been scorched by the fires , and so far at least 54 people have been killed .
the fires are still threatening key nuclear sites , such as russia 's main nuclear research center in sarov and the nuclear waste processing plant at mayak .
author : darren mara , catherine bolsover -lrb- afp / reuters / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet a right to water listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the czech state rushes artwork out of a german museum in light of a potential legal issue .
watch the video poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de women -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around 40,000 women and children flee to shelters yearly women 's shelters in germany fear a court ruling to grant unwed fathers custody will put abused women in greater danger .
others hailed the federal constitutional court 's decision as a victory for single fathers . germany 's women 's shelters have joined the country 's largest single parents ' organization in opposing increased rights for unmarried fathers .
until now , the fathers of children born out of wedlock in germany had no legally guaranteed custody rights .
mothers had the right to withhold joint custody , leaving the father to sue the mother for visitation rights .
but edith schwab , head of germany 's association of single mothers and fathers , says the federal constitutional court 's decision last week to grant custody rights to unwed fathers is bad news for single mothers , who themselves will now have to fight to keep unfit fathers from raising their children .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : now courts can award single fathers full custody " mothers who refuse to share custody have very , very good reasons for their decision - meaning that the potential for conflict between the parents is so great that the mother has rightly chosen to deny joint custody , " she said .
worse yet - according to heike herold , who works with an organization that coordinates women 's shelters across germany - in abuse scenarios , increasing fathers ' rights can undermine the safety of mother and child .
" it becomes problematic when there 's domestic violence , but also when you think of cases in which children are conceived by rape , " herold told deutsche welle .
" when you think of the legislature automatically giving these fathers custody , it becomes quite critical . "
a victory for single fathers on august 3 , germany 's constitutional court ruled that " the current legal situation excessively encroached on paternity rights for fathers of children born out of wedlock , because they could only take part in raising the child with the mother 's consent , " according to spokeswoman judith blohm .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the constitutional court ruled that fathers should have the same rights as mothers blohm said that until now " the fathers also did n't have the right to have a court determine what arrangement was in the best interest of the child . "
the case for increased rights was mounted by a father who had no way to prevent the mother of his child from moving to another city and taking the child with her .
the decision , which is expected to be drafted into law when the legislature returns from its summer break , was heralded as a victory for fathers ' rights .
thorsten nitz , an underground train driver , was one of the many fathers across germany who welcomed the decision .
nitz , who has been denied custody of his children since splitting up with his former partner , said he was " relieved when the ruling came , " adding , " it 's been overdue for years . "
harder to cut ties with abusive partners herold sees the flipside to this new right .
although she welcomes increased paternity rights in principle , she feels there needs to be a system in place to review fathers ' suitability before granting them joint custody .
the decision makes it much more difficult for unmarried women to cut off ties with abusive partners , herold said , adding that unmarried women who left abusive relationships " did n't have the problem that their partner , as the biological father of the child , necessarily had access to the child as part of his visitation and custody rights . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : increased fathers ' rights could threaten abused mothers ' anonymity under the new law , she says , a victim of abuse will " potentially have to mount a court case to protect herself and her children . "
" giving the father custody rights also means that the mother can not decide alone to move to another city or switch her child 's school , " herold added .
tracking down mothers through their children as it is , she said , visitation rights alone often give abusive fathers the opportunity to track down their child 's mother , forcing abused mothers to flee from one halfway home to the next .
herold added that , in cases of children born within wedlock , german courts already assume that contact to the father is nearly always in the child 's best interest .
she worries that more children will now have to live with abusive fathers .
" we know from experience that many family courts operate on the premise that joint custody is the new way of doing things .
they ask the parents to ‘ please settle their disputes in the interest of the child ' - but that does n't work when one side uses violence against the other , " she said . according to herold 's shelter coordination network , some 20,000 abused women seek shelter in halfway houses every year in germany - with another 20,000 children accompanying them .
germany 's federal family ministry estimates that a quarter of the country 's female population will be physically abused by a sexual partner .
author : david levitz editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's highest court strengthens unmarried fathers ' rights the german constitutional court decided on tuesday to give unmarried fathers the right to sue for joint custody of their children .
the new ruling brings germany in line with the european court of human rights .
-lrb- 03.08.2010 -rrb- ten eu countries move to streamline divorce process the eu has brought free movement of goods , services and relationships across borders .
but when those international couples divorce , those borders can make it even more complicated .
some eu nations want to change that .
-lrb- 25.03.2010 -rrb- germany says it will improve rights for single dads the german government has said it will make changes to its custody laws after the european court of human rights upheld an unmarried german father 's right to joint custody of his daughter .
-lrb- 04.12.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 reader response feedback our readers and asia compact listeners love to send in their views .
here 's a selection .
global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media ceasefire thailand and cambodia have agreed on a new ceasefire deal after the earlier one failed .
robert carmichael , dw correspndent in phnom penh , reports on the latest developments listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 29.04.11 thailand and cambodia agree on a new ceasefire deal the new chinese census shows the communist country is ageing non-formal education in bhutan is on the rise podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile militancy there have been three militant attacks on the pakistan navy in karachi in less than a week .
former law minister of pakistan , iqbal haider , admits that his country 's security establishment is double-minded about the taliban prison break about 475 prisoners , mostly taliban fighters , managed to break out of a jail in kandahar on monday .
thomas ruttig of the afghanistan analysis network believes that the afghan government is corrupt and incompetent to run its affairs april asia quiz quiz of the month justice hate crime twelve men suspected of attacking members of the ahmadiyah community face trial in indonesia .
newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 pakistan thomas baerthlein of the deutsche welle talks about the situation in flood-ravaged thatta the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
maoists in india dr. p. v. ramanna from the institute for defence studies and analyses in new delhi talks about the issue .
september asia quiz quiz of the month asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact -lrb- 15.09.2010 -rrb- leaders to go to kashmir for discussion deutsche welle reports from thatta in pakistan nazis in mongolia : a modern day aberration podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 author arundhati roy could face sedition charges over kashmir comments .
prashant bhushan , a senior lawyer at the indian supreme court , gives his views on the issue october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 27.10.10 un secretary-general in cambodia new war of words between india and china could arundhati roy face sedition charges ?
podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
asia compact join us on facebook !
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german pop - the intersphere -pipe- german pop -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : german pop podcasts : dw presents the hottest bands hans unstern ja , panik alin coen band jupiter jones music -pipe- 11.08.2010 german pop - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic german pop no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions round seven picks dw 's experts look over their fortunes in a bid to predict bundesliga week seven results .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- dw-tv europe live kino we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks final prediction there 's still much to pay for in the last game of the bundesliga season - and still much to predict .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live bundesliga predictions bumpy progress dw 's soccer pundits are having their bumps felt in an attempt to predict match day 15 results .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live kino we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report new feature round 2 picks it 's bundesliga round 2 .
the dw experts dust off the crystal ball for another set of forecasts .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg players bremen and peru 's claudio pizarro talks on becoming the top foreign scorer in bundesliga history .
watch the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live stock exchange today in history 1894 : berlin 's reichstag © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 listen live stock exchange today in history 1905 : bloody sunday in st. petersburg © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany under fire for doing business with cluster bomb producer -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany under fire for doing business with cluster bomb producer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cluster bombs rank among the most inhumane weapons germany 's interior ministry is facing criticism for buying airport body scanners from the subsidiary of a us company known to produce internationally banned cluster munitions .
but it looks unlikely to cancel the deal . the german interior ministry has bought two full-body scanners to be used for tests at hamburg airport in september .
the devices come from a subsidiary of the us l3 communications company , which according to a survey by the ikv pax christi aid organization , is one of seven firms that still produces cluster ammunition .
the deal has come under pressure because germany is a signatory to the convention of the banning of cluster munitions which came into force on august 1 .
at a news conference in berlin on monday , ministry spokesman philipp spauschus had a hard time justifying the deal .
" there are no other producers in the world that are able the deliver body scanners of the quality that the us company boasts , " spauschus said .
" if we were to cancel the contract now , we 'd not be able to carry out any tests at hamburg airport . "
passing the buck the spokesman added that the delivery request had gone out solely to eas envimet analytical systems based in brunn , austria , which had then ordered the scanners from l3 communications security and detection systems in the us .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have done little to keep the big powers from using cluster bombs it is widely believed that the ministry must have known from the start where the scanners would originate .
spauschus left this question unanswered on monday , saying that the government was only now looking into whether the deal was ethically acceptable .
francois de keersmaeker , managing director of the handicap international aid group that supports cluster bomb victims , accused the government in berlin of double standards .
knowing that there 's no legal instrument of preventing such deals , he pointed to the moral and political dimensions involved .
moral standards asked for " you simply weaken the treaty prohibiting cluster munitions if you pursue such business activities , " de keersmaeker told deutsche welle .
" the german government - like every other potential buyer - should adhere to some ethical norms while deciding where to buy what , and berlin should in future be more careful about it . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : kuechenmeister is upset about berlin 's behavior thomas kuechenmeister , of the german landmine.de pressure group , also found that such business contracts should be taboo for countries which signed the convention on the banning of cluster munitions .
" i call on the government in berlin to renounce such deals immediately , " kuechenmeister said .
so far , well over 100 countries have signed and another 37 nations have ratified the convention that prohibits the production and proliferation of cluster ammunition .
this type of weapon has caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of civilians the world over . but the treaty has not been signed yet by some of the world 's largest producers or possessors of cluster bombs , including china , russia , the united states , pakistan and brazil .
author : hardy graupner editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin calls for more international support against cluster bombs cluster bombs have been banned by an international convention that came into force on august 1 .
germany is among 108 countries who have signed up , but there are still some major military powers missing from the list .
-lrb- 01.08.2010 -rrb- german firm specialized in destroying cluster munitions has plenty of work germany ratified the un convention on cluster munitions on thursday , pledging to destroy its complete arsenal by 2015 .
this means at least six years of dangerous work for a company near berlin .
-lrb- 28.06.2009 -rrb- human rights groups push for ratifcation of cluster munitions ban several of the 96 states that have so far signed a treaty to ban cluster bombs have started to destroy their stockpiles of the deadly weapons , even before the accord is ratified .
-lrb- 29.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic a treaty banning cluster bombs is enacted -lrb- 01.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think berlin is applying double standards ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
almara a afirka domin al ’ adu da zaman lafiya -pipe- learning by ear -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 shiga batutuwa labarai siyasa zamantakewa afirka a jaridun jamus amsoshin takardunku samun haɗin kan jamus darussan jamusanci koyan jamusanci koyar da jamusanci deutsch xxl dw-radio kuna sauraronmu learning by ear adireshi dw-tv shirin turanci interactive podcast mobile rss learning by ear -pipe- 11.08.2010 almara a afirka domin al ’ adu da zaman lafiya großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : labarai ne na barkwanci , ban dariya ko ɓacin rai , ɗimautarwa ko annashuwa . almara na jan hankali masu sauraro a dukkan matakai .
labarai 10 da aka zaɓa bawai kawai na nishaɗantarwa ba ne , amma suna nunar da mutuntaka , ilimantarwa da kuma hikimomi da aka gada .
a nahiyarmu ta afirka , har yanzu ana darajawa al 'adar nan ta yin tatsuniya .
domin yana daya daga cikin hanyoyin darajawa al 'dun garjiya .
da yawa daga cikinmmu zasu iya tuna irin labarai ko kuma tatsuniyoyi da iyaye ko kuma kakanninmu ke faɗa mana akan abubuwan tarihi .
kazalika ndiaye ibrahima daga senegal .
waɗannan almara guda 10 da za ku ji a wannan shirin , suk kasance irin tatsuniyoyi ne da yaji daga wurin kakarsa domin inganta fahintar juna da zaman lafiya .
dabbobi dai suna taka muhimmiyyar rawa a cikin almara-manya da kanana , mai ƙarfi da malalaci , jarumi da matsoraci .
muna ɗauke da labarin zaki , kura , tattabara , giwa , maciji da dai sauransu da irin kasadarsu .
yanayi da zasu tsinci kansu , da rikicin das u da kansu zasu warware , suna kama dana mafi yawa daga cikimmu ana iya sauraron shirin ji ka karu a harsuna shida : turanci , kiswahili , faransanci , hausa , portugues da amharik .
ma 'aikatar harkokin wajen jamus ke tallafawa shirin .
mawallafiya : zainab mohammed send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic badaƙƙalar kwaɗo hikayar zaki , kura da ungulu ' yar tattabara mai ƙwazo kura , macijiya , damisa da mugun dawa akawal da kili sarki babu masarauta ki ba mu , mu amshe mujiya da sarkin ƙwai wanda ya fi kowa kyau biri da kunkuru feedback send us your opinion learning by ear shiga shafukan wasu harsunan na learning by ear : learning by ear cikin ingilishi learning by ear cikin faransanci learning by ear cikin kiswahili learning by ear cikin harshen portugal learning by ear cikin harshen amharik © dw 2010 ba deutsche welle ce ke da alhakin abubuwan da shafunan yanar gizo na waje suka ƙunsa ba .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
almara a afirka domin al ’ adu da zaman lafiya -pipe- learning by ear -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.04.2011 shiga batutuwa labarai siyasa zamantakewa afirka a jaridun jamus amsoshin takardunku darussan jamusanci koyar da jamusanci koyan jamusanci deutsch xxl dw-radio kuna sauraronmu learning by ear adireshi dw-tv shirin turanci interactive podcast mobile rss learning by ear -pipe- 11.08.2010 almara a afirka domin al ’ adu da zaman lafiya großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : labarai ne na barkwanci , ban dariya ko ɓacin rai , ɗimautarwa ko annashuwa . almara na jan hankali masu sauraro a dukkan matakai .
labarai 10 da aka zaɓa bawai kawai na nishaɗantarwa ba ne , amma suna nunar da mutuntaka , ilimantarwa da kuma hikimomi da aka gada .
a nahiyarmu ta afirka , har yanzu ana darajawa al 'adar nan ta yin tatsuniya .
domin yana daya daga cikin hanyoyin darajawa al 'dun garjiya .
da yawa daga cikinmmu zasu iya tuna irin labarai ko kuma tatsuniyoyi da iyaye ko kuma kakanninmu ke faɗa mana akan abubuwan tarihi .
kazalika ndiaye ibrahima daga senegal .
waɗannan almara guda 10 da za ku ji a wannan shirin , suk kasance irin tatsuniyoyi ne da yaji daga wurin kakarsa domin inganta fahintar juna da zaman lafiya .
dabbobi dai suna taka muhimmiyyar rawa a cikin almara-manya da kanana , mai ƙarfi da malalaci , jarumi da matsoraci .
muna ɗauke da labarin zaki , kura , tattabara , giwa , maciji da dai sauransu da irin kasadarsu .
yanayi da zasu tsinci kansu , da rikicin das u da kansu zasu warware , suna kama dana mafi yawa daga cikimmu ana iya sauraron shirin ji ka karu a harsuna shida : turanci , kiswahili , faransanci , hausa , portugues da amharik .
ma 'aikatar harkokin wajen jamus ke tallafawa shirin .
mawallafiya : zainab mohammed send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic badaƙƙalar kwaɗo hikayar zaki , kura da ungulu ' yar tattabara mai ƙwazo kura , macijiya , damisa da mugun dawa akawal da kili sarki babu masarauta ki ba mu , mu amshe mujiya da sarkin ƙwai wanda ya fi kowa kyau biri da kunkuru feedback send us your opinion learning by ear shiga shafukan wasu harsunan na learning by ear : learning by ear cikin ingilishi learning by ear cikin faransanci learning by ear cikin kiswahili learning by ear cikin harshen portugal learning by ear cikin harshen amharik © dw 2011 ba deutsche welle ce ke da alhakin abubuwan da shafunan yanar gizo na waje suka ƙunsa ba .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet un climate summit in cancun , mexico listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge venturing into mafia turf europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
postcard from europe : the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week day of german unity listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kino we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
drugs new psychoactive substances are becoming ever more common in the european union , a new report says .
listen to the audio entertainment everyone in dusseldorf wants a piece of the eurovision pie .
watch the video postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 russian fires hit chernobyl-affected areas , threatening recontamination großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the russian wildfires are the country 's worst in decades russia 's state forest watchdog says fires covering hundreds of hectares have been recorded on lands contaminated by the chernobyl disaster .
experts warn that the blazes could lift nuclear particles into the atmosphere . wildfires covering hundreds of hectares were recorded in russia 's bryansk region near the border to belarus and ukraine throughout the past week , the country 's state forest watchdog said on wednesday .
" according to data from august 6 , in the bryansk region alone 28 fires covering an area of 269 hectares -lrb- 664 acres -rrb- were recorded on these radioactive lands , " an official told russia 's interfax news agency .
" there are maps of the -lsb- radioactive -rsb- contamination , and there are maps of the fires .
anyone can put the two together .
why deny this information ? "
at least 54 people have died in russia 's wildfires , which increased in number from 557 on tuesday to 612 on wednesday , but decreased in area from 174,000 hectares to 92,700 .
european union foreign policy chief catherine ashton said she had called russian foreign minister sergei lavrov on wednesday to show the bloc 's solidarity with russia on the disaster .
fears confirmed earlier this week , officials from the russian emergency ministry denied there had been wildfires in the bryansk region , after concern had been raised over blazes reaching the highly contaminated areas resulting in nuclear particles being lifted out of the soil and into the atmosphere .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : smoke from the fires has blanketed the country for days emergency minister sergei shoigu added on tuesday that a team of experts had conducted a thorough check of the area and concluded that there was no visible increase in radiation levels .
environmental group greenpeace , meanwhile , has reiterated warnings of the danger of the fires in the contaminated areas .
vladimir chuprov , the head of greenpeace russia 's energy unit , told deutsche welle that the russian government was attempting to " hide the real danger " of the wildfires .
" this is in many ways a repeating of chernobyl , of the mistakes made by the government in 1986 when they failed to release any information on the risks and the danger of the reactor explosion . "
with that being said , chuprov was quick to make it clear that the danger of the wildfires was nowhere near that of the chernobyl disaster .
" the fires in bryansk are more than capable of lifting radioactive particles from the soil , but this will result in a release of much lower levels of radiation compared to -lsb- what was -rsb- released at chernobyl . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : winds took the nuclear particles eastward after the chernobyl meltdown in 1986 danger for western europe ?
officials in germany , meanwhile , have not dismissed the possibility of danger for western europe as a result of the wildfires in bryansk .
professor edmund lengfelder , chairman of the german society for radiation protection , told german public radio on wednesday that the chance of radioactive particles entering the atmosphere was " very large " and that these could travel up to thousands of kilometers depending on wind conditions .
" nobody can be sure about the distance these particles could travel in the wind .
for this reason , it is necessary for the safety of the german people that the radiation authorities keep an eye on the air activity in russia and to inform the german people in case any danger arises , " lengfelder said .
germany 's federal office for radiation protection said on wednesday that the wildfires in russia posed no danger to germany or western europe .
it added that such fires on contaminated lands were only capable of affecting the " immediately surrounding region . "
author : gabriel borrud -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de heat wave could cost russia almost 1 percent of gdp fire , drought and smog in the heat wave are likely to cost russia 's economy 5-12 billion euros .
an estimated 10 million hectares of agricultural land has been destroyed .
-lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- foreign aid arrives in russia as battle against blaze continues international aid began trickling into russia on monday as the country continues efforts to contain widespread forest and peat bog fires .
authorities said fires that threatened a nuclear site were under control .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- wheat prices soar as russia bans grain exports with one-fifth of russia 's farmland destroyed by drought and wildfire , prime minister putin has banned grain exports .
the move , intended to keep domestic food costs down , has caused a spike in global wheat prices .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- merkel offers russia help fighting wildfires chancellor angela merkel has offered german firefighting help to russia , as the country tries to quell hundreds of wildfires .
at least 50 people have been killed in the blazes , which look set to continue .
-lrb- 05.08.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic wildfires in russia will end up costing the state several billion euros -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- fears of radioactive contamination as fires near polluted land -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think western europe is at any risk ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
almara a afirka domin al ’ adu da zaman lafiya -pipe- learning by ear -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.05.2011 shiga batutuwa labarai siyasa zamantakewa afirka a jaridun jamus amsoshin takardunku darussan jamusanci koyar da jamusanci koyan jamusanci deutsch xxl dw-radio kuna sauraronmu learning by ear adireshi dw-tv shirin turanci interactive podcast mobile rss learning by ear -pipe- 11.08.2010 almara a afirka domin al ’ adu da zaman lafiya großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : labarai ne na barkwanci , ban dariya ko ɓacin rai , ɗimautarwa ko annashuwa . almara na jan hankali masu sauraro a dukkan matakai .
labarai 10 da aka zaɓa bawai kawai na nishaɗantarwa ba ne , amma suna nunar da mutuntaka , ilimantarwa da kuma hikimomi da aka gada .
a nahiyarmu ta afirka , har yanzu ana darajawa al 'adar nan ta yin tatsuniya .
domin yana daya daga cikin hanyoyin darajawa al 'dun garjiya .
da yawa daga cikinmmu zasu iya tuna irin labarai ko kuma tatsuniyoyi da iyaye ko kuma kakanninmu ke faɗa mana akan abubuwan tarihi .
kazalika ndiaye ibrahima daga senegal .
waɗannan almara guda 10 da za ku ji a wannan shirin , suk kasance irin tatsuniyoyi ne da yaji daga wurin kakarsa domin inganta fahintar juna da zaman lafiya .
dabbobi dai suna taka muhimmiyyar rawa a cikin almara-manya da kanana , mai ƙarfi da malalaci , jarumi da matsoraci .
muna ɗauke da labarin zaki , kura , tattabara , giwa , maciji da dai sauransu da irin kasadarsu .
yanayi da zasu tsinci kansu , da rikicin das u da kansu zasu warware , suna kama dana mafi yawa daga cikimmu ana iya sauraron shirin ji ka karu a harsuna shida : turanci , kiswahili , faransanci , hausa , portugues da amharik .
ma 'aikatar harkokin wajen jamus ke tallafawa shirin .
mawallafiya : zainab mohammed send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic badaƙƙalar kwaɗo hikayar zaki , kura da ungulu ' yar tattabara mai ƙwazo kura , macijiya , damisa da mugun dawa akawal da kili sarki babu masarauta ki ba mu , mu amshe mujiya da sarkin ƙwai wanda ya fi kowa kyau biri da kunkuru learning by ear shiga shafukan wasu harsunan na learning by ear : learning by ear cikin ingilishi learning by ear cikin faransanci learning by ear cikin kiswahili learning by ear cikin harshen portugal learning by ear cikin harshen amharik © dw 2011 ba deutsche welle ce ke da alhakin abubuwan da shafunan yanar gizo na waje suka ƙunsa ba .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de women -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around 40,000 women and children flee to shelters yearly women 's shelters in germany fear a court ruling to grant unwed fathers custody will put abused women in greater danger .
others hailed the federal constitutional court 's decision as a victory for single fathers . germany 's women 's shelters have joined the country 's largest single parents ' organization in opposing increased rights for unmarried fathers .
until now , the fathers of children born out of wedlock in germany had no legally guaranteed custody rights .
mothers had the right to withhold joint custody , leaving the father to sue the mother for visitation rights .
but edith schwab , head of germany 's association of single mothers and fathers , says the federal constitutional court 's decision last week to grant custody rights to unwed fathers is bad news for single mothers , who themselves will now have to fight to keep unfit fathers from raising their children .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : now courts can award single fathers full custody " mothers who refuse to share custody have very , very good reasons for their decision - meaning that the potential for conflict between the parents is so great that the mother has rightly chosen to deny joint custody , " she said .
worse yet - according to heike herold , who works with an organization that coordinates women 's shelters across germany - in abuse scenarios , increasing fathers ' rights can undermine the safety of mother and child .
" it becomes problematic when there 's domestic violence , but also when you think of cases in which children are conceived by rape , " herold told deutsche welle .
" when you think of the legislature automatically giving these fathers custody , it becomes quite critical . "
a victory for single fathers on august 3 , germany 's constitutional court ruled that " the current legal situation excessively encroached on paternity rights for fathers of children born out of wedlock , because they could only take part in raising the child with the mother 's consent , " according to spokeswoman judith blohm .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the constitutional court ruled that fathers should have the same rights as mothers blohm said that until now " the fathers also did n't have the right to have a court determine what arrangement was in the best interest of the child . "
the case for increased rights was mounted by a father who had no way to prevent the mother of his child from moving to another city and taking the child with her .
the decision , which is expected to be drafted into law when the legislature returns from its summer break , was heralded as a victory for fathers ' rights .
thorsten nitz , an underground train driver , was one of the many fathers across germany who welcomed the decision .
nitz , who has been denied custody of his children since splitting up with his former partner , said he was " relieved when the ruling came , " adding , " it 's been overdue for years . "
harder to cut ties with abusive partners herold sees the flipside to this new right .
although she welcomes increased paternity rights in principle , she feels there needs to be a system in place to review fathers ' suitability before granting them joint custody .
the decision makes it much more difficult for unmarried women to cut off ties with abusive partners , herold said , adding that unmarried women who left abusive relationships " did n't have the problem that their partner , as the biological father of the child , necessarily had access to the child as part of his visitation and custody rights . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : increased fathers ' rights could threaten abused mothers ' anonymity under the new law , she says , a victim of abuse will " potentially have to mount a court case to protect herself and her children . "
" giving the father custody rights also means that the mother can not decide alone to move to another city or switch her child 's school , " herold added .
tracking down mothers through their children as it is , she said , visitation rights alone often give abusive fathers the opportunity to track down their child 's mother , forcing abused mothers to flee from one halfway home to the next .
herold added that , in cases of children born within wedlock , german courts already assume that contact to the father is nearly always in the child 's best interest .
she worries that more children will now have to live with abusive fathers .
" we know from experience that many family courts operate on the premise that joint custody is the new way of doing things .
they ask the parents to ‘ please settle their disputes in the interest of the child ' - but that does n't work when one side uses violence against the other , " she said . according to herold 's shelter coordination network , some 20,000 abused women seek shelter in halfway houses every year in germany - with another 20,000 children accompanying them .
germany 's federal family ministry estimates that a quarter of the country 's female population will be physically abused by a sexual partner .
author : david levitz editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's highest court strengthens unmarried fathers ' rights the german constitutional court decided on tuesday to give unmarried fathers the right to sue for joint custody of their children .
the new ruling brings germany in line with the european court of human rights .
-lrb- 03.08.2010 -rrb- ten eu countries move to streamline divorce process the eu has brought free movement of goods , services and relationships across borders .
but when those international couples divorce , those borders can make it even more complicated .
some eu nations want to change that .
-lrb- 25.03.2010 -rrb- germany says it will improve rights for single dads the german government has said it will make changes to its custody laws after the european court of human rights upheld an unmarried german father 's right to joint custody of his daughter .
-lrb- 04.12.2009 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the court 's decision to increase fathers ' rights ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet happier bees and reclaiming nature listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de women -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around 40,000 women and children flee to shelters yearly women 's shelters in germany fear a court ruling to grant unwed fathers custody will put abused women in greater danger .
others hailed the federal constitutional court 's decision as a victory for single fathers . germany 's women 's shelters have joined the country 's largest single parents ' organization in opposing increased rights for unmarried fathers .
until now , the fathers of children born out of wedlock in germany had no legally guaranteed custody rights .
mothers had the right to withhold joint custody , leaving the father to sue the mother for visitation rights .
but edith schwab , head of germany 's association of single mothers and fathers , says the federal constitutional court 's decision last week to grant custody rights to unwed fathers is bad news for single mothers , who themselves will now have to fight to keep unfit fathers from raising their children .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : now courts can award single fathers full custody " mothers who refuse to share custody have very , very good reasons for their decision - meaning that the potential for conflict between the parents is so great that the mother has rightly chosen to deny joint custody , " she said .
worse yet - according to heike herold , who works with an organization that coordinates women 's shelters across germany - in abuse scenarios , increasing fathers ' rights can undermine the safety of mother and child .
" it becomes problematic when there 's domestic violence , but also when you think of cases in which children are conceived by rape , " herold told deutsche welle .
" when you think of the legislature automatically giving these fathers custody , it becomes quite critical . "
a victory for single fathers on august 3 , germany 's constitutional court ruled that " the current legal situation excessively encroached on paternity rights for fathers of children born out of wedlock , because they could only take part in raising the child with the mother 's consent , " according to spokeswoman judith blohm .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the constitutional court ruled that fathers should have the same rights as mothers blohm said that until now " the fathers also did n't have the right to have a court determine what arrangement was in the best interest of the child . "
the case for increased rights was mounted by a father who had no way to prevent the mother of his child from moving to another city and taking the child with her .
the decision , which is expected to be drafted into law when the legislature returns from its summer break , was heralded as a victory for fathers ' rights .
thorsten nitz , an underground train driver , was one of the many fathers across germany who welcomed the decision .
nitz , who has been denied custody of his children since splitting up with his former partner , said he was " relieved when the ruling came , " adding , " it 's been overdue for years . "
harder to cut ties with abusive partners herold sees the flipside to this new right .
although she welcomes increased paternity rights in principle , she feels there needs to be a system in place to review fathers ' suitability before granting them joint custody .
the decision makes it much more difficult for unmarried women to cut off ties with abusive partners , herold said , adding that unmarried women who left abusive relationships " did n't have the problem that their partner , as the biological father of the child , necessarily had access to the child as part of his visitation and custody rights . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : increased fathers ' rights could threaten abused mothers ' anonymity under the new law , she says , a victim of abuse will " potentially have to mount a court case to protect herself and her children . "
" giving the father custody rights also means that the mother can not decide alone to move to another city or switch her child 's school , " herold added .
tracking down mothers through their children as it is , she said , visitation rights alone often give abusive fathers the opportunity to track down their child 's mother , forcing abused mothers to flee from one halfway home to the next .
herold added that , in cases of children born within wedlock , german courts already assume that contact to the father is nearly always in the child 's best interest .
she worries that more children will now have to live with abusive fathers .
" we know from experience that many family courts operate on the premise that joint custody is the new way of doing things .
they ask the parents to ‘ please settle their disputes in the interest of the child ' - but that does n't work when one side uses violence against the other , " she said . according to herold 's shelter coordination network , some 20,000 abused women seek shelter in halfway houses every year in germany - with another 20,000 children accompanying them .
germany 's federal family ministry estimates that a quarter of the country 's female population will be physically abused by a sexual partner .
author : david levitz editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's highest court strengthens unmarried fathers ' rights the german constitutional court decided on tuesday to give unmarried fathers the right to sue for joint custody of their children .
the new ruling brings germany in line with the european court of human rights .
-lrb- 03.08.2010 -rrb- ten eu countries move to streamline divorce process the eu has brought free movement of goods , services and relationships across borders .
but when those international couples divorce , those borders can make it even more complicated .
some eu nations want to change that .
-lrb- 25.03.2010 -rrb- germany says it will improve rights for single dads the german government has said it will make changes to its custody laws after the european court of human rights upheld an unmarried german father 's right to joint custody of his daughter .
-lrb- 04.12.2009 -rrb- feedback what do you think of the court 's decision to increase fathers ' rights ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour a youth orchestra from brazil listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . kashmir earthquake five years ago , an earthquake struck pakistan-administered kashmir , killing some 80,000 people .
manfred soekefeld of the university of munich speaks about reconstruction in the region , known as ' azad kashmir ' in pakistan pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
october asia quiz quiz of the month asia compact join us on facebook !
china-eu the eu-china summit ended without a press conference .
jing men from the college of europe in bruges elaborates on eu-china relations listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 08.10.10 nobel peace prize spurs hopes for more democracy in china china woos turkey after deal with greece five years after the kashmir quake podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . thai election the international crisis group has published a new report on the upcoming polls in thailand .
rungrawee chalermsripinyorat , icg southeast asia analyst , talks about the think tank 's recommendations april asia quiz quiz of the month us-pakistan pakistan 's intelligence agency isi wants more control over cia operations on pakistani soil .
babak khalatbari from the konrad adenauer foundation on what pakistanis think about the tension with the us listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 13.04.11 india 's upa-led government on shaky ground indonesia struggles to keep the spread of hiv / aids in check bangkok plans repatriation of burmese refugees podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . pakistan floods in pakistan click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
afghanistan one year after the kunduz airstrike , aerial attacks still cause many civilian deaths .
abdul bari hakim of the deutsche welle afghanistan service says kunduz has not been forgotten september asia quiz quiz of the month japan japan 's prime minister naoto kan faces a challenge from rival ichiro ozawa .
interview with paul kevenhoerster , japan expert at the university of muenster asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact -lrb- 03.09.2010 -rrb- one year after the kunduz attacks sanitation without subsidies in cambodia indian bookies and match fixing podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress excessive regulation in cambodia threatens civil society listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 11.08.2010 gates ' charity and google street view draw reader comments großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : one of germany 's wealthiest called the campaign " too garish " dw readers reacted with skepticism when it comes to google street view 's launch in germany and bill gates ' call to the ultra-rich to donate part of their fortunes . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . germany and bill gates ' charity agenda kraemer is right .
gates is taking money away from the government and the right of elected leaders to decide how much to spend on what .
it is a throw-back to a distant past when the church or a king could turn benevolent or not at will . - tony , great britain on one hand , it makes sense what bill gates is doing , but at the same time it does n't .
helping the world by helping others is great !
but one has to be very careful how you help people !
you should help people help themselves .
and if bill gates wants to give his money away , then that 's his decision .
but to get other people to do the same ?
that 's another issue !
he must be on a mission to lower the net-wealth of the uber-rich .
maybe he 's trying to create a classless world . - tim , usa " i find this to be a troubling development , " said kraemer .
" who has given these people the authority to decide where such huge amounts of money should be spent ? "
exactly what authority do they need to give away their own money ?
that is ridiculous to even suggest . - ted , usa " microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? "
the whole idea is to make the rich , richer . - leon , usa google plans to launch street view germany by year 's end i love google in general .
however , i agree with the germans ; i wish i could make them stay away from my neighborhood . - nina , usa it is seriously more harmful than useful .
it is inviting more evil and strangers to the inside of your bedroom , and those behind this project are masters in the business of deceit .
if the program allows blockage of one 's home , but what about your neighbors ' numbers ?
consider not allowing this badly-intended project and keep your family safe and your household clean . - kim , canada the british government has never had much regard for its citizens ' welfare or rights .
i 'm relying on the eu to protect me .
incidentally , when you buy a computer , the operating system should be optional .
come on eu regulators .
i 'm relying on you to save me the cost of buying ' windows ' tm , when i only use linux . - robyn , great britain google should probably allow people to write them and state that they do n't want their house to be viewable .
however , you should n't worry about google .
most of their images are quite bad , and you ca n't make anything out .
at least in america , i have found microsoft and bing maps have much better " spying , " " birds-eye " applications .
i did take a look at berlin , germany , and those pictures are pretty darn clear . - don , usa they should be banned .
they are foreigners .
they can just get out .
why let them do that ?
what is the purpose ?
what service do they provide us ? - fred , australia compiled by greg wiser editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google plans to launch street view in germany by end of year germany has been particularly critical of google 's street view image capture program .
the company now plans to let users block pictures of their property before the german site 's year-end launch , but criticism remains .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- germany still waiting for its bill gates microsoft founder bill gates convinced dozens of american billionaires to give away at least half of their fortune to charity in june .
german politicians say their nation 's wealthy should follow suit .
but will they ? -lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- germany 's super-rich rebuff gates ' charity scheme some of germany 's wealthiest citizens have criticized a philanthropic campaign started by microsoft founder bill gates , saying charitable spending is best left to the government .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . us japan drills us-japanese military drills have begun in the sea of japan as the region seethes with conflict .
eberhard sandschneider of the german council on foreign relations explains the significance of the exercise listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 03.12.10 gigantic us-japanese military maneuver kicks off taiwan 's ex-president begins 19-year sentence pakistan still reeling from floods podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about religious extremists gaining from disasters ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . india-pakistan islamabad has banned the export of onions to india , saying there is a shortage in pakistan .
qamar agha of delhi 's jamia milia university on the impact of the ban so far reader response human rights , commonwealth games , mental illness our readers and asia compact listeners love to send in their views .
here ’ s a selection .
january asia quiz quiz of the month china-us the us has downplayed china 's military build-up and reports about its first stealth fighter plane .
bates gill from stockholm 's international peace research institute on whether china poses a threat to the us asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 07.01.11 praise for slaying of punjab governor shocks liberal pakistan islamabad bans onion exports to india price is high for foreign investors in china podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany under fire for doing business with cluster bomb producer -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany under fire for doing business with cluster bomb producer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cluster bombs rank among the most inhumane weapons germany 's interior ministry is facing criticism for buying airport body scanners from the subsidiary of a us company known to produce internationally banned cluster munitions .
but it looks unlikely to cancel the deal . the german interior ministry has bought two full-body scanners to be used for tests at hamburg airport in september .
the devices come from a subsidiary of the us l3 communications company , which according to a survey by the ikv pax christi aid organization , is one of seven firms that still produces cluster ammunition .
the deal has come under pressure because germany is a signatory to the convention of the banning of cluster munitions which came into force on august 1 .
at a news conference in berlin on monday , ministry spokesman philipp spauschus had a hard time justifying the deal .
" there are no other producers in the world that are able the deliver body scanners of the quality that the us company boasts , " spauschus said .
" if we were to cancel the contract now , we 'd not be able to carry out any tests at hamburg airport . "
passing the buck the spokesman added that the delivery request had gone out solely to eas envimet analytical systems based in brunn , austria , which had then ordered the scanners from l3 communications security and detection systems in the us .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have done little to keep the big powers from using cluster bombs it is widely believed that the ministry must have known from the start where the scanners would originate .
spauschus left this question unanswered on monday , saying that the government was only now looking into whether the deal was ethically acceptable .
francois de keersmaeker , managing director of the handicap international aid group that supports cluster bomb victims , accused the government in berlin of double standards .
knowing that there 's no legal instrument of preventing such deals , he pointed to the moral and political dimensions involved .
moral standards asked for " you simply weaken the treaty prohibiting cluster munitions if you pursue such business activities , " de keersmaeker told deutsche welle .
" the german government - like every other potential buyer - should adhere to some ethical norms while deciding where to buy what , and berlin should in future be more careful about it . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : kuechenmeister is upset about berlin 's behavior thomas kuechenmeister , of the german landmine.de pressure group , also found that such business contracts should be taboo for countries which signed the convention on the banning of cluster munitions .
" i call on the government in berlin to renounce such deals immediately , " kuechenmeister said .
so far , well over 100 countries have signed and another 37 nations have ratified the convention that prohibits the production and proliferation of cluster ammunition .
this type of weapon has caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of civilians the world over . but the treaty has not been signed yet by some of the world 's largest producers or possessors of cluster bombs , including china , russia , the united states , pakistan and brazil .
author : hardy graupner editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin calls for more international support against cluster bombs cluster bombs have been banned by an international convention that came into force on august 1 .
germany is among 108 countries who have signed up , but there are still some major military powers missing from the list .
-lrb- 01.08.2010 -rrb- german firm specialized in destroying cluster munitions has plenty of work germany ratified the un convention on cluster munitions on thursday , pledging to destroy its complete arsenal by 2015 .
this means at least six years of dangerous work for a company near berlin .
-lrb- 28.06.2009 -rrb- human rights groups push for ratifcation of cluster munitions ban several of the 96 states that have so far signed a treaty to ban cluster bombs have started to destroy their stockpiles of the deadly weapons , even before the accord is ratified .
-lrb- 29.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic a treaty banning cluster bombs is enacted -lrb- 01.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think berlin is applying double standards ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress excessive regulation in cambodia threatens civil society listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
yaƙar kwarara zuwa birane -pipe- learning by ear -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 shiga batutuwa labarai siyasa zamantakewa afirka a jaridun jamus amsoshin takardunku samun haɗin kan jamus darussan jamusanci koyan jamusanci koyar da jamusanci deutsch xxl dw-radio kuna sauraronmu learning by ear adireshi dw-tv shirin turanci interactive podcast mobile rss learning by ear -pipe- 11.08.2010 yaƙar kwarara zuwa birane großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ayayinda ƙaura zuwa birane daga karkara ke cigaba da haɓaka , unguwannin manyan birane na neman batsewa saboda yawan jama ’ a . wasan kwaikwayonmu zai nunar da yadda wannan cunkosan ya sanye wasu komawa ƙauyensu .
wasu kan tafi manyan biraren ne idan aka rasa madogara a karkara .
sai dai ba abu ma sauki bane ka samu mafaka a manyan biranen afirka dake cunkushe .
amma sai ka isa birnin , kake sanin cewar hange dala ba shiga birni bane .
shirin mu na ji ka karu , zaku ji labarin abokanai guda uku da suka sauke karatun jami 'a ba tare da samun madafa a birni ba , suka koma ƙauyensu domin kafa gamayyar bunka harkokin noma .
akwai kalubale dake jiransu , domin gwajin wannan manufa na su .
ina za su samu kuɗaɗen da zasu aza tubalin wannan shiri na su ?
yaya mazauna ƙauyen zasu marabci wannan shiri na su ?
kuma ko shin wane irin amfanin gona ne yafi muhimanci a zuba masa jari don gaba , kazalika mai riba ?
ka bamu aron ƙunnuwanka domin jin labarin waɗannan matasa .
ana iya sauraron shirin ji ka karu a harsuna shida : turanci , kiswahili , faransanci , hausa , portugues da amharik .
ma 'aikatar harkokin wajen jamus ke tallafawa shirin .
mawallafiya : zainab mohammed send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic birni babu aiki , tashin hankali hijira da haƙƙoƙi abun kai wa baka burin ko wace mace mene ne buƙatar yin daidai idan kai kaɗai ne ?
tsakanin matsi da wahala gazawa ta hanyar rashawa alamun soyayya hangen adawa labari mai daɗi feedback send us your opinion learning by ear shiga shafukan wasu harsunan na learning by ear : learning by ear cikin ingilishi learning by ear cikin faransanci learning by ear cikin kiswahili learning by ear cikin harshen portugal learning by ear cikin harshen amharik © dw 2010 ba deutsche welle ce ke da alhakin abubuwan da shafunan yanar gizo na waje suka ƙunsa ba .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
yaƙar kwarara zuwa birane -pipe- learning by ear -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 shiga batutuwa labarai siyasa zamantakewa afirka a jaridun jamus amsoshin takardunku darussan jamusanci koyar da jamusanci koyan jamusanci deutsch xxl dw-radio kuna sauraronmu learning by ear adireshi dw-tv shirin turanci interactive podcast mobile rss learning by ear -pipe- 11.08.2010 yaƙar kwarara zuwa birane großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ayayinda ƙaura zuwa birane daga karkara ke cigaba da haɓaka , unguwannin manyan birane na neman batsewa saboda yawan jama ’ a . wasan kwaikwayonmu zai nunar da yadda wannan cunkosan ya sanye wasu komawa ƙauyensu .
wasu kan tafi manyan biraren ne idan aka rasa madogara a karkara .
sai dai ba abu ma sauki bane ka samu mafaka a manyan biranen afirka dake cunkushe .
amma sai ka isa birnin , kake sanin cewar hange dala ba shiga birni bane .
shirin mu na ji ka karu , zaku ji labarin abokanai guda uku da suka sauke karatun jami 'a ba tare da samun madafa a birni ba , suka koma ƙauyensu domin kafa gamayyar bunka harkokin noma .
akwai kalubale dake jiransu , domin gwajin wannan manufa na su .
ina za su samu kuɗaɗen da zasu aza tubalin wannan shiri na su ?
yaya mazauna ƙauyen zasu marabci wannan shiri na su ?
kuma ko shin wane irin amfanin gona ne yafi muhimanci a zuba masa jari don gaba , kazalika mai riba ?
ka bamu aron ƙunnuwanka domin jin labarin waɗannan matasa .
ana iya sauraron shirin ji ka karu a harsuna shida : turanci , kiswahili , faransanci , hausa , portugues da amharik .
ma 'aikatar harkokin wajen jamus ke tallafawa shirin .
mawallafiya : zainab mohammed send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic birni babu aiki , tashin hankali hijira da haƙƙoƙi abun kai wa baka burin ko wace mace mene ne buƙatar yin daidai idan kai kaɗai ne ?
tsakanin matsi da wahala gazawa ta hanyar rashawa alamun soyayya hangen adawa labari mai daɗi feedback send us your opinion learning by ear shiga shafukan wasu harsunan na learning by ear : learning by ear cikin ingilishi learning by ear cikin faransanci learning by ear cikin kiswahili learning by ear cikin harshen portugal learning by ear cikin harshen amharik © dw 2011 ba deutsche welle ce ke da alhakin abubuwan da shafunan yanar gizo na waje suka ƙunsa ba .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page european business week lf 081010 - mp3-stereo labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live stock exchange today in history 1962 : spiegel incident © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1926 : berlin � s radio tower opened © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fujitsu germany - relief for the japanese parent company mini-hydro power plant - energy for everyday household needs portugal accepts eu bailout - who 's next ?
audi & the dtm - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1912 : the sinking of the titanic © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german pop - the intersphere -pipe- german pop -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : german pop podcasts : dw presents the hottest bands hans unstern ja , panik alin coen band jupiter jones music -pipe- 11.08.2010 german pop - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic german pop no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 2 -rrb- listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week wilhelm friedemann bach on his 300th birthday listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks playing hurt it 's match day 28 in the bundesliga but dw 's tired pundits wish it was all over already ...
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with clarinettist martin fröst listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 2 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the results gurus dw 's soccer pundits attempt to predict match day 13 's results while achieving spiritual nirvana .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from the world of soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de soccer -pipe- 11.08.2010 sloppy germany thwarted by denmark in friendly großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany appeared to have control for most of the game in their first game since placing third in the world cup , the german national soccer team blew a two-goal lead over denmark .
the friendly match in copenhagen finished up a tie , after the hosts drew level late on . after spending most of the game behind , denmark snatched a 2-2 draw with germany in a friendly football match at parken stadium in copenhagen on wednesday .
germany 's mario gomez gave his team the lead in the 19th minute after stand-in captain thomas hitzlsperger faked a shot and passed through the danish defense to set up the bayern munich striker .
the visitors extended their lead in the 73rd minute when christian gentner put substitute patrick helmes through on goal .
the bayer leverkusen frontman coolly side-footed the ball into the bottom corner .
but the danes , who failed to advance past the world cup group stages for the first time in the country 's history in south africa this summer , were right back into the match just 90 seconds after the germans ' second goal .
veteran dennis rommedahl intercepted a bad pass from german defender serdar tasci and shot past goalkeeper tim wiese , marking his 100th international appearance with his 18th goal for denmark .
the equalizer came just three minutes from time , when an indecisive wiese could only chest the ball down on the edge of his penalty area , fearing that he would be penalized for using his hands outside the box .
it dropped for danish substitute mads junker , who easily put the ball past wiese and into an empty net , making the final score 2-2 .
the goal arrived just seconds after gomez spurned a golden opportunity to put the result beyond any doubt at the other end of the pitch .
world cup hangover " on the whole , it was acceptable , " germany coach joachim loew reflected afterwards .
" i saw several points on which we can build .
i could really not expect much more . "
in an effort to appease club coaches just 10 days before the start of the bundesliga season , loew took few of his star players to copenhagen .
manchester city defender jerome boateng was the one survivor from germany ’ s last game , the 3-2 victory over uruguay which secured a third-place finish at the world cup .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : both captain hitzlsperger -lrb- l -rrb- and goalscorer gomez -lrb- r -rrb- had rewarding evenings wolfsburg full-back sascha riether made his debut for the national side as a second-half substitute , while loew handed the captain 's armband to the recalled hitzlsperger .
the former stuttgart midfielder , who will play in the english premier league for west ham united in the coming season , was left out of the world cup squad .
speculation over the captaincy for the long-term looks set to continue for several more weeks at least , with michael ballack only just returning to training at leverkusen and philipp lahm among the bayern players rested for the denmark friendly .
germany begin their euro 2012 qualifying campaign with an away game against belgium on september 3 , before hosting azerbaijan in cologne four days later .
author : andrew bowen , thomas sheldrick -lrb- afp / dpa -rrb- editor : mark hallam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany shorn of world cup stars for friendly match against denmark germany 's first match since the world cup has the potential to cause a ruckus between the country 's leading clubs and the german soccer federation -lrb- dfb -rrb- over its timing .
luckily , joachim loew 's cool head has prevailed .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- german national team captaincy drama rivets readers now that the world cup is over , the soap opera can begin .
dw fans wrote in to side with michael ballack or philipp lahm in the discussion on who should captain the nationalelf .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- youthful germany hold heads high and look to future as the german squad arrived home in frankfurt early monday morning , celebrating thomas mueller 's golden boot and a third-place finish , we reflect on the lasting legacy of joachim loew 's young , adventurous team .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- feedback was joachim loew right to rest germany 's key players against denmark ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de natural disasters -pipe- 11.08.2010 pakistani taliban try to benefit from floods großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : millions have been made homeless by the floods the taliban hope to boost their influence by supplying aid faster than the authorities in the devastated northwestern disaster zone . " the government is not doing anything for us , " is a common complaint among the survivors .
for days , the flood victims have been saying that the government 's reaction has been slow and that there are food and water shortages .
the poor response has offered a perfect chance to extremists to step in and say they are doing more than the authorities . this is nothing new , explains an aid worker who wants her name and organization to remain anonymous : " i can not exactly pinpoint the taliban but different religious groups , that are very active in pakistan , have always been the frontline of relief workers . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : people in karachi 's slums have taken refuge in huge concrete pipes many terrorist groups , for example lashkar-e-taiba , which is suspected by india of being behind the bombings in mumbai , claim to be charitable organisations . aid with a message according to the us daily , the new york times , aid supplies are delivered along with the message : " do n't trust the government and its western allies " . however , the aid worker says it is hard to tell how important the political message is and whether religious groups are using the situation for " their own purpose or for general relief as it could be a combination of both .
you are grief struck , you 're in a malnourished state , you have lost your home so this all creates a sort of emotional and psychological state which is very exploitable . " religious groups in pakistan have always been good at delivering aid packets and political messages together – not only the taliban .
the same happened after the 2005 earthquake , the aid worker , says when " they were very active .
the first major relief work was done by local groups in the first 24 , 36 , 48 hours .
the government and the machinery took a long time – that left a lot of legroom . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : when a devastating earthquake shook pakistan in october 2008 , local religious groups were the first to provide aid gaining the hearts and minds of the people un special envoy jean-maurice ripert confirms that the same is happening this time : " it 's true that they are using any opportunity to advocate for their cause .
it has nothing to do with the effort of the international community and the un .
you have to work .
you have to help the people .
to gain the hearts and the minds of the people .
to show that the international community cares about the pakistani people . " the fact that president asif ali zardari visited france and britain just as the floods were wreaking havoc and refused to cut short his trip has not helped matters . he has promised to visit the disaster zone soon as part of efforts to " regain " the hearts and minds of the people . author : kai küstner / act editor : disha uppal send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pakistani president comes home to flooded country president asif ali zardari was criticized when he refused to cut short his trip as his country was gripped by devastating floods that have killed at least 1,600 people and affected 13 million .
-lrb- 10.08.2010 -rrb- floods continue to wreak havoc in pakistan heavy rains and floods have now killed over 1700 people and destroyed thousands of homes .
aid workers are having problems accessing the millions of affected people , who face shortages of food , clean water and shelter .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- flood death toll rises to at least 1,600 in pakistan hundreds of thousands were evacuated from risk areas on friday , as more flash floods were forecast .
the floods have now spread to indian-administered kashmir , killing over 100 .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- 02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china party success china 's success depends on the communist party , but corruption might lead to catastrophe : hu foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german pop - the intersphere -pipe- german pop -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : german pop podcasts : dw presents the hottest bands hans unstern ja , panik alin coen band jupiter jones music -pipe- 11.08.2010 german pop - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic german pop no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaftsbilanz we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download champions ' single ' castles in the sand ' www-links check out benyamin nuss ' official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live radio feature what 's playing ?
from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best of germany top 100 .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links feloche 's official website more on accessibility for people with disabilities in germany -lrb- in german -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download champions ' single ' castles in the sand ' www-links check out champions ' myspace page feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links singing for change website roots n routes website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links shantel & bucovina club orkestar on myspace beethovenfest website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 11.08.2010 books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pressler 's " malka mai " is based the memories of a holocaust survivor writer mirjam pressler believes books can help people come to terms with their circumstances - even if they ca n't change the world .
her works focus on struggling figures who may help readers see their lives differently . author mirjam pressler is a sharp observer who writes in a simple , precise style about characters who do n't have it easy in life . her celebrated debut novel " bitter chocolate " -lrb- 1980 -rrb- centered on a 15-year-old with an eating disorder .
the book was recognized with the oldenburg prize for children and youth , which proved to be just the first of many honors for the industrious author . pressler has written more than 40 books in the last 30 years , and she has also translated more than 300 from hebrew , english and dutch into german - including a critical edition of the diary of anne frank .
pressler 's own works have also been translated many times , including the 2001 all-ages title " malka mai " that was translated into 14 languages . the end of a childhood bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : malka 's mother must decide to leave her with farmers in the carpathian mountains it 's september , 1943 , and malka still has her own bed , her own clothes in the closet , new sandals , beautiful blond braids and enough to eat ; she even has her big sister minna and her mother , dr. mai . less than half of a year later , malka has learned " to hear nothing , see nothing , and to hole up inside herself . "
she has lost her home and the confidence that her mother would always be there .
she has been starved , completely shaved and can scarcely remember being the child of seven years old that she was just a few months ago . in early fall 1943 , germans began deporting citizens in lawoczne , a small town on the german-polish border .
doctor hanna mai and her two daughters , minna and malka , were forced to flee suddenly by foot across the carpathian mountains into hungary . along the way , seven-year-old malka becomes sick and catches a high fever .
her mother makes the agonizing decision to leave her with a family of farmers .
they assure her that they will bring malka to her once she recovers - after all , no one expects a child to stand out . but things do n't turn out as planned .
malka is betrayed , sent to a prison and then into the ghetto .
a nightmare begins at the fringes of a collapsing civilization .
in the end , though , malka survives and is even able to find her way back to her mother - although she has become practically a different person in the meantime . experienced history bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mirjam pressler won the german book prize in 2004 for her works today , malka mai lives in tel aviv .
she had recounted to mirjam pressler the parts of her story that she is able to remember .
having shared some of mai 's experiences , pressler was able to fill in the gaps knowingly and sensitively .
pressler is also jewish , just slightly younger than mai , and was raised by foster parents and in a boarding school . her narration treats more than just a child who must cast off her memories to survive ; the story also portrays a mother who nearly falls apart due to self-doubt and blame . mirjam pressler once said she does n't buy into the notion that books can change the world .
but , she said , the right book can move some people deeply . that may happen , for instance , when a book shows how someone can remain open to things getting better , or when a child learns through reading that he is n't responsible for circumstances he ca n't control . " malka mai " is just that kind of book . author : silke bartlick -lrb- gsw -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- everyone loves the little mole who never gave up it may be the most natural thing in the world , but werner holzwarth was one of the first to write a children 's book about it .
it came as a surprise to some that a story about shit became an international hit .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- german children 's books prove to be bestsellers abroad books for kids from germany have become a hit on the international book market .
storybook heroes like those from cornelia funke or michael ende are beloved by young readers from the us to china or korea .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german children 's publishers take traditional route to success books for young people have resisted the economic crisis .
the youth segment in publishing shows stable growth - even though the majority of children 's and youth publishers are refusing to go digital .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- feedback have you read " malka mai " ?
if so , what did you think ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
literature looking for a good book ?
book review : rabinowich 's ' splithead ' depicts east-west divide visit the new books in german website podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 11 - jupiter jones are moving on up subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany under fire for doing business with cluster bomb producer -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany under fire for doing business with cluster bomb producer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cluster bombs rank among the most inhumane weapons germany 's interior ministry is facing criticism for buying airport body scanners from the subsidiary of a us company known to produce internationally banned cluster munitions .
but it looks unlikely to cancel the deal . the german interior ministry has bought two full-body scanners to be used for tests at hamburg airport in september .
the devices come from a subsidiary of the us l3 communications company , which according to a survey by the ikv pax christi aid organization , is one of seven firms that still produces cluster ammunition .
the deal has come under pressure because germany is a signatory to the convention of the banning of cluster munitions which came into force on august 1 .
at a news conference in berlin on monday , ministry spokesman philipp spauschus had a hard time justifying the deal .
" there are no other producers in the world that are able the deliver body scanners of the quality that the us company boasts , " spauschus said .
" if we were to cancel the contract now , we 'd not be able to carry out any tests at hamburg airport . "
passing the buck the spokesman added that the delivery request had gone out solely to eas envimet analytical systems based in brunn , austria , which had then ordered the scanners from l3 communications security and detection systems in the us .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have done little to keep the big powers from using cluster bombs it is widely believed that the ministry must have known from the start where the scanners would originate .
spauschus left this question unanswered on monday , saying that the government was only now looking into whether the deal was ethically acceptable .
francois de keersmaeker , managing director of the handicap international aid group that supports cluster bomb victims , accused the government in berlin of double standards .
knowing that there 's no legal instrument of preventing such deals , he pointed to the moral and political dimensions involved .
moral standards asked for " you simply weaken the treaty prohibiting cluster munitions if you pursue such business activities , " de keersmaeker told deutsche welle .
" the german government - like every other potential buyer - should adhere to some ethical norms while deciding where to buy what , and berlin should in future be more careful about it . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : kuechenmeister is upset about berlin 's behavior thomas kuechenmeister , of the german landmine.de pressure group , also found that such business contracts should be taboo for countries which signed the convention on the banning of cluster munitions .
" i call on the government in berlin to renounce such deals immediately , " kuechenmeister said .
so far , well over 100 countries have signed and another 37 nations have ratified the convention that prohibits the production and proliferation of cluster ammunition .
this type of weapon has caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of civilians the world over . but the treaty has not been signed yet by some of the world 's largest producers or possessors of cluster bombs , including china , russia , the united states , pakistan and brazil .
author : hardy graupner editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin calls for more international support against cluster bombs cluster bombs have been banned by an international convention that came into force on august 1 .
germany is among 108 countries who have signed up , but there are still some major military powers missing from the list .
-lrb- 01.08.2010 -rrb- german firm specialized in destroying cluster munitions has plenty of work germany ratified the un convention on cluster munitions on thursday , pledging to destroy its complete arsenal by 2015 .
this means at least six years of dangerous work for a company near berlin .
-lrb- 28.06.2009 -rrb- human rights groups push for ratifcation of cluster munitions ban several of the 96 states that have so far signed a treaty to ban cluster bombs have started to destroy their stockpiles of the deadly weapons , even before the accord is ratified .
-lrb- 29.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic a treaty banning cluster bombs is enacted -lrb- 01.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think berlin is applying double standards ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany under fire for doing business with cluster bomb producer -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany under fire for doing business with cluster bomb producer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cluster bombs rank among the most inhumane weapons germany 's interior ministry is facing criticism for buying airport body scanners from the subsidiary of a us company known to produce internationally banned cluster munitions .
but it looks unlikely to cancel the deal . the german interior ministry has bought two full-body scanners to be used for tests at hamburg airport in september .
the devices come from a subsidiary of the us l3 communications company , which according to a survey by the ikv pax christi aid organization , is one of seven firms that still produces cluster ammunition .
the deal has come under pressure because germany is a signatory to the convention of the banning of cluster munitions which came into force on august 1 .
at a news conference in berlin on monday , ministry spokesman philipp spauschus had a hard time justifying the deal .
" there are no other producers in the world that are able the deliver body scanners of the quality that the us company boasts , " spauschus said .
" if we were to cancel the contract now , we 'd not be able to carry out any tests at hamburg airport . "
passing the buck the spokesman added that the delivery request had gone out solely to eas envimet analytical systems based in brunn , austria , which had then ordered the scanners from l3 communications security and detection systems in the us .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have done little to keep the big powers from using cluster bombs it is widely believed that the ministry must have known from the start where the scanners would originate .
spauschus left this question unanswered on monday , saying that the government was only now looking into whether the deal was ethically acceptable .
francois de keersmaeker , managing director of the handicap international aid group that supports cluster bomb victims , accused the government in berlin of double standards .
knowing that there 's no legal instrument of preventing such deals , he pointed to the moral and political dimensions involved .
moral standards asked for " you simply weaken the treaty prohibiting cluster munitions if you pursue such business activities , " de keersmaeker told deutsche welle .
" the german government - like every other potential buyer - should adhere to some ethical norms while deciding where to buy what , and berlin should in future be more careful about it . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : kuechenmeister is upset about berlin 's behavior thomas kuechenmeister , of the german landmine.de pressure group , also found that such business contracts should be taboo for countries which signed the convention on the banning of cluster munitions .
" i call on the government in berlin to renounce such deals immediately , " kuechenmeister said .
so far , well over 100 countries have signed and another 37 nations have ratified the convention that prohibits the production and proliferation of cluster ammunition .
this type of weapon has caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of civilians the world over . but the treaty has not been signed yet by some of the world 's largest producers or possessors of cluster bombs , including china , russia , the united states , pakistan and brazil .
author : hardy graupner editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin calls for more international support against cluster bombs cluster bombs have been banned by an international convention that came into force on august 1 .
germany is among 108 countries who have signed up , but there are still some major military powers missing from the list .
-lrb- 01.08.2010 -rrb- german firm specialized in destroying cluster munitions has plenty of work germany ratified the un convention on cluster munitions on thursday , pledging to destroy its complete arsenal by 2015 .
this means at least six years of dangerous work for a company near berlin .
-lrb- 28.06.2009 -rrb- human rights groups push for ratifcation of cluster munitions ban several of the 96 states that have so far signed a treaty to ban cluster bombs have started to destroy their stockpiles of the deadly weapons , even before the accord is ratified .
-lrb- 29.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic a treaty banning cluster bombs is enacted -lrb- 01.08.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think berlin is applying double standards ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de women -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around 40,000 women and children flee to shelters yearly women 's shelters in germany fear a court ruling to grant unwed fathers custody will put abused women in greater danger .
others hailed the federal constitutional court 's decision as a victory for single fathers . germany 's women 's shelters have joined the country 's largest single parents ' organization in opposing increased rights for unmarried fathers .
until now , the fathers of children born out of wedlock in germany had no legally guaranteed custody rights .
mothers had the right to withhold joint custody , leaving the father to sue the mother for visitation rights .
but edith schwab , head of germany 's association of single mothers and fathers , says the federal constitutional court 's decision last week to grant custody rights to unwed fathers is bad news for single mothers , who themselves will now have to fight to keep unfit fathers from raising their children .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : now courts can award single fathers full custody " mothers who refuse to share custody have very , very good reasons for their decision - meaning that the potential for conflict between the parents is so great that the mother has rightly chosen to deny joint custody , " she said .
worse yet - according to heike herold , who works with an organization that coordinates women 's shelters across germany - in abuse scenarios , increasing fathers ' rights can undermine the safety of mother and child .
" it becomes problematic when there 's domestic violence , but also when you think of cases in which children are conceived by rape , " herold told deutsche welle .
" when you think of the legislature automatically giving these fathers custody , it becomes quite critical . "
a victory for single fathers on august 3 , germany 's constitutional court ruled that " the current legal situation excessively encroached on paternity rights for fathers of children born out of wedlock , because they could only take part in raising the child with the mother 's consent , " according to spokeswoman judith blohm .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the constitutional court ruled that fathers should have the same rights as mothers blohm said that until now " the fathers also did n't have the right to have a court determine what arrangement was in the best interest of the child . "
the case for increased rights was mounted by a father who had no way to prevent the mother of his child from moving to another city and taking the child with her .
the decision , which is expected to be drafted into law when the legislature returns from its summer break , was heralded as a victory for fathers ' rights .
thorsten nitz , an underground train driver , was one of the many fathers across germany who welcomed the decision .
nitz , who has been denied custody of his children since splitting up with his former partner , said he was " relieved when the ruling came , " adding , " it 's been overdue for years . "
harder to cut ties with abusive partners herold sees the flipside to this new right .
although she welcomes increased paternity rights in principle , she feels there needs to be a system in place to review fathers ' suitability before granting them joint custody .
the decision makes it much more difficult for unmarried women to cut off ties with abusive partners , herold said , adding that unmarried women who left abusive relationships " did n't have the problem that their partner , as the biological father of the child , necessarily had access to the child as part of his visitation and custody rights . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : increased fathers ' rights could threaten abused mothers ' anonymity under the new law , she says , a victim of abuse will " potentially have to mount a court case to protect herself and her children . "
" giving the father custody rights also means that the mother can not decide alone to move to another city or switch her child 's school , " herold added .
tracking down mothers through their children as it is , she said , visitation rights alone often give abusive fathers the opportunity to track down their child 's mother , forcing abused mothers to flee from one halfway home to the next .
herold added that , in cases of children born within wedlock , german courts already assume that contact to the father is nearly always in the child 's best interest .
she worries that more children will now have to live with abusive fathers .
" we know from experience that many family courts operate on the premise that joint custody is the new way of doing things .
they ask the parents to ‘ please settle their disputes in the interest of the child ' - but that does n't work when one side uses violence against the other , " she said . according to herold 's shelter coordination network , some 20,000 abused women seek shelter in halfway houses every year in germany - with another 20,000 children accompanying them .
germany 's federal family ministry estimates that a quarter of the country 's female population will be physically abused by a sexual partner .
author : david levitz editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's highest court strengthens unmarried fathers ' rights the german constitutional court decided on tuesday to give unmarried fathers the right to sue for joint custody of their children .
the new ruling brings germany in line with the european court of human rights .
-lrb- 03.08.2010 -rrb- ten eu countries move to streamline divorce process the eu has brought free movement of goods , services and relationships across borders .
but when those international couples divorce , those borders can make it even more complicated .
some eu nations want to change that .
-lrb- 25.03.2010 -rrb- germany says it will improve rights for single dads the german government has said it will make changes to its custody laws after the european court of human rights upheld an unmarried german father 's right to joint custody of his daughter .
-lrb- 04.12.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 - das kulturmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought feedback how do you think ancient humans used stone tools ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de archeology -pipe- 11.08.2010 ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the 3.4 million-year-old tool modified bones from dikika , ethiopia scientists from the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig say that they have found evidence of cuts on animal bones , indicating that ancient humans used stone tools much earlier than believed . our human ancestors used stone tools almost 1 million years earlier than previously thought , according to a new study conducted by scientists at the max planck institute for evolutionary anthropology in leipzig .
their results will be published thursday in the journal nature . in ethiopia 's afar region , the researchers found two bones of two different mammals dating back 3.4 million years .
the rib bone and a femur bone had chips in them that could have only been made by sharp stones used to cut flesh off an animal . based on this evidence , scientists now believe that humans were using stone tools far earlier than the previous theory , which dated the first such use to 2.5 million years ago .
" this discovery dramatically shifts the known timeframe of a game-changing behavior for our ancestors , " zeresenay alemseged , the lead author and a paleoanthropologist with the california academy of sciences in san francisco , said in a statement . " tool use fundamentally altered the way our earliest ancestors interacted with nature , allowing them to eat new types of food and exploit new territories , " he added .
" it also led to tool making - the precursor to such advanced technologies as airplanes , mri machines and iphones . " early humans also interested in eating bone marrow bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : alemseged -lrb- left -rrb- directs the dikika research project , which found the bone fragments shannon mcpherron , an american archeologist on the project , added the team also found evidence of early humans , or hominids , using stones in another way .
" we also found another kind of mark on these bones - percussions marks , " he said in an interview with deutsche welle .
" those come from when these hominids would have taken a large chunk of stone and broken open the bone and they break it open to get at the marrow .
the meat and marrow are high in nutritional marrow and would have been a good source of food for these early hominids . "
he added that there was circumstantial evidence that this find would occur , but that there had n't yet been any hard evidence . " when people look at the stone tools of 2.5 million years ago they see a level of sophistication in those stone tools that suggest there might have been an earlier phase when hominids were learning how to first manufacture stone tools , " mcpherron said . calling the researchers ' find an exciting event , leslie c. aiello , an anthropologist and the president of the wenner-gren foundation in new york , said no one had expected to find evidence of tool use at such a relatively early point in time . " this new discovery will cause us to refine our ideas about dietary and cognitive evolution in our early ancestors , " she said .
" it would be nice to have some stone tools from this period and more than two bones as evidence ; however , this is enough to demonstrate that there is still a lot to learn about these early phases of hominin evolution . " advent of tools crucial to human evolution bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : these markings show how humans ate meat and used tools nearly 1 million years earlier than previously thought the bones were discovered hundreds of meters from the same site in ethiopia where a decade ago the same team found the skeleton of " selam , " an australopithecus afarensis , an extinct species that existed on the evolutionary scale between ancient monkeys and modern humans .
anthropologists noted that the use of tools was a crucial moment for human evolution and set humans apart from the rest of the animal kingdom .
" it shows us that two aspects of our behavior , two things that anthropologists think are really important in the story of our evolution and how we are today - meat-eating and tool use - happened even deeper in our evolutionary past than we previously thought , " mcpherron said .
author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iceman 's dna may reveal ties to today 's humans , scientists say oetzi the iceman , first discovered in the alps in 1991 , now can be studied in more detail .
researchers say they may be able to understand the connection between 5,000-year-old diseases and modern ones .
-lrb- 28.07.2010 -rrb- skeleton lucy on tour lucy is the name given to fossilized remains of one of the earliest human hominids discovered in a remote region of ethiopia .
the skeleton is now on its way to the us for a six-year tour of museums .
-lrb- 12.08.2007 -rrb- neanderthal still posing questions 150 years after discovery in 1856 , two workers found 16 bones in a limestone quarry in the neander valley , east of düsseldorf .
it was thought the bones belonged to a cave bear , but they were subsequently found to be the remains of early man .
-lrb- 20.08.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ancient humans used stone tools earlier than previously thought 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview avantgo channel © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german firms tui , e.on , fraport post mixed figures -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 11.08.2010 german firms tui , e.on , fraport post mixed figures großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tui posted a loss but remained optimistic german tourism company tui has reported losses in its latest figures , echoing the results of the country 's largest energy provider , e.on. however , german airport operator fraport fared better . several significant german companies released their latest figures on wednesday with mixed results .
tourism group tui posted a net loss and airport operator fraport posted growth , while energy giant e.on saw its earnings slip .
tui , which also deals in shipping and logistics with its unit hapag lloyd , said it received a boost from a pick-up in global trade , but nonetheless recorded a fiscal year third-quarter loss of 36.3 million euros -lrb- $ 47.4 million -rrb- .
the hanover-based company laid the blame firmly at the feet of weak leisure earnings that it says are typical for the industry in the period from april to the end of june .
tui officials were upbeat about the results , however , pointing to the scale of its losses over the same period last year when the firm posted a net loss of 456.8 million euros .
e.on energized germany 's largest power company , e.on , also reported mixed quarterly results with first-half operating profit up 11 percent after jumps in gas and electricity sales , which rose 6.7 percent to 44.3 billion euros .
the duesseldorf-based firm said however , that its first-half net income fell by 7 percent to 4.17 billion euros .
it said higher interest expenses and taxes led to a net profit fall of 9 percent to 3.91 billion euros .
e.on is among the major public utility companies in europe and the world 's largest investor-owned energy service provider .
sky 's the limit bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : frankfurt airport saw record traffic in july german transport company and airport operator fraport fared much better than its corporate counterparts , continuing a strong recovery to post record figures for the month of july .
at frankfurt airport , fraport 's largest aviation hub , passenger numbers grew by 7.8 percent to its highest volume on record - nearly 5.3 million people - for the month .
july 31 saw a record 183,663 passengers check in .
across all its subsidiary airports , fraport recorded growth of 11.7 percent , corresponding to 10.5 million air passengers .
author : darren mara -lrb- afp / ap / dpa -rrb- editor : martin kuebler send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de travel industry cruises through the downturn just over one million germans spent their holidays on a cruise ship last year , an increase of 10 percent compared to 2008 .
now german tour operator tui cruises is launching its second ship to benefit from the trend .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- e.on , eu agree on german gas market access the european commission has accepted commitments by german energy giant e.on to open up access to germany 's gas market after concerns that the company was unfairly shutting out competitors .
-lrb- 05.05.2010 -rrb- court approves fraport expansion the ruling allows frankfurt airport to add a new runway and terminal as well as cargo and maintenance facilities .
the decision is a setback for environmentalists opposed to the destruction of forest land .
-lrb- 21.08.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german pop - the intersphere -pipe- german pop -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : german pop podcasts : dw presents the hottest bands hans unstern ja , panik alin coen band jupiter jones music -pipe- 11.08.2010 german pop - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic german pop no. 4 - the intersphere feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 dw-tv europe live arts.21 - the cultural magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 11.08.2010 books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pressler 's " malka mai " is based the memories of a holocaust survivor writer mirjam pressler believes books can help people come to terms with their circumstances - even if they ca n't change the world .
her works focus on struggling figures who may help readers see their lives differently . author mirjam pressler is a sharp observer who writes in a simple , precise style about characters who do n't have it easy in life . her celebrated debut novel " bitter chocolate " -lrb- 1980 -rrb- centered on a 15-year-old with an eating disorder .
the book was recognized with the oldenburg prize for children and youth , which proved to be just the first of many honors for the industrious author . pressler has written more than 40 books in the last 30 years , and she has also translated more than 300 from hebrew , english and dutch into german - including a critical edition of the diary of anne frank .
pressler 's own works have also been translated many times , including the 2001 all-ages title " malka mai " that was translated into 14 languages . the end of a childhood bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : malka 's mother must decide to leave her with farmers in the carpathian mountains it 's september , 1943 , and malka still has her own bed , her own clothes in the closet , new sandals , beautiful blond braids and enough to eat ; she even has her big sister minna and her mother , dr. mai . less than half of a year later , malka has learned " to hear nothing , see nothing , and to hole up inside herself . "
she has lost her home and the confidence that her mother would always be there .
she has been starved , completely shaved and can scarcely remember being the child of seven years old that she was just a few months ago . in early fall 1943 , germans began deporting citizens in lawoczne , a small town on the german-polish border .
doctor hanna mai and her two daughters , minna and malka , were forced to flee suddenly by foot across the carpathian mountains into hungary . along the way , seven-year-old malka becomes sick and catches a high fever .
her mother makes the agonizing decision to leave her with a family of farmers .
they assure her that they will bring malka to her once she recovers - after all , no one expects a child to stand out . but things do n't turn out as planned .
malka is betrayed , sent to a prison and then into the ghetto .
a nightmare begins at the fringes of a collapsing civilization .
in the end , though , malka survives and is even able to find her way back to her mother - although she has become practically a different person in the meantime . experienced history bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mirjam pressler won the german book prize in 2004 for her works today , malka mai lives in tel aviv .
she had recounted to mirjam pressler the parts of her story that she is able to remember .
having shared some of mai 's experiences , pressler was able to fill in the gaps knowingly and sensitively .
pressler is also jewish , just slightly younger than mai , and was raised by foster parents and in a boarding school . her narration treats more than just a child who must cast off her memories to survive ; the story also portrays a mother who nearly falls apart due to self-doubt and blame . mirjam pressler once said she does n't buy into the notion that books can change the world .
but , she said , the right book can move some people deeply . that may happen , for instance , when a book shows how someone can remain open to things getting better , or when a child learns through reading that he is n't responsible for circumstances he ca n't control . " malka mai " is just that kind of book . author : silke bartlick -lrb- gsw -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- everyone loves the little mole who never gave up it may be the most natural thing in the world , but werner holzwarth was one of the first to write a children 's book about it .
it came as a surprise to some that a story about shit became an international hit .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- german children 's books prove to be bestsellers abroad books for kids from germany have become a hit on the international book market .
storybook heroes like those from cornelia funke or michael ende are beloved by young readers from the us to china or korea .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german children 's publishers take traditional route to success books for young people have resisted the economic crisis .
the youth segment in publishing shows stable growth - even though the majority of children 's and youth publishers are refusing to go digital .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
oxford , britain schwerin , germany las palmas , spain reykjavik , iceland darmstadt , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
education increases ability to cope with dementia , study shows -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de research -pipe- 11.08.2010 education increases ability to cope with dementia , study shows großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : an extra year of education can cut the risk of suffering from dementia by up to 11 percent scientists have puzzled over why people with more education suffer less from dementia .
a new study shows the brains of people who attend school longer compensate better for conditions associated with old-age dementia . several studies over the last 10 years have shown that the longer people stay in school the less likely they are to develop signs of dementia in old age , but the explanation of why this is the case has been unclear .
older people with higher levels of education cope better with the damage to the brain that is associated with old age , according to a report published last month in the journal brain .
a team of british and finnish researchers examined the brains of 872 people who took part in three ageing studies and found that the more educated test subjects suffered fewer outward signs of dementia than less educated subjects , regardless of the actual extent a disease had affected them , according to hannah keage of the university of cambridge 's institute of public health .
" those with longer education had exactly the same pathology , or damage the brain , as those with low education , " said kaege , who is also a co-author of the report .
" they were just able to compensate or cope with that pathology before expressing their syndrome . "
bildunterschrift : the diseases that cause dementia equally affect people regardless of their education education buffers while people 's brains may indeed be damaged by dementia , they do not show outward signs of the illness and can continue their lives normally .
" it may be that more education actually does teach the brain to do various things in different ways and that there is a cognitive reserve there that 's buffering those with higher education if they loose some abilities , " keage added .
how the brain manages to bypass damage associated with old age remains the topic for future studies , the report said , but added that education is one of the factors .
an overall healthy diet and lifestyle also appear to be factors in lowering the risk of suffering from the signs of dementia .
" you can do things to modify how at risk you are to dementia , and there are things you can do throughout your life to change your risk , " keage said .
" it 's certain that education in early life - primary school , secondary school and any university - will reduce your dementia risk . "
the researchers have said that risk of developing dementia decreases by up to 11 percent for each year of additional education .
dementia is associated with impaired cognition and functional disability .
alzheimer 's disease is one of the most well-known types of dementia , but there are many others , including vascular dementia and lewy body dementia .
author : lars bevanger -lrb- sms -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany opens dementia research center in bonn a new research center devoted to the study of dementia will help hundreds of thousands of people who suffer from alzheimer 's and parkinson 's and other diseases , the german research minister said .
-lrb- 24.06.2009 -rrb- german researchers claim alzheimer 's breakthrough german scientists have developed a new enzyme-blocking method which nearly halts the formation of protein deposits associated with alzheimer 's .
still , it could be years before the treatment becomes reality .
-lrb- 29.09.2008 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de sports -pipe- 11.08.2010 professional athletes may break ramadan fasting , islamic scholars say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : muslim players like oezil are now allowed to break the fast the bundesliga season starts next week - right in the middle of the muslim holy month of ramadan .
this year , muslim footballers will profit from a new fatwa , allowing them an exception to the strict fasting rules . for german soccer internationals sami khedira , mesut oezil und serdar tasci , august 11 , 2010 is a special day .
not only does the national team play its first match since the world cup , but it is the beginning of the holy month of ramadan .
normally , the three devout muslim professional footballers , all of whom play for germany , would be obliged to refrain from eating or drinking from dawn to sundown during ramadan . but doing hard physical activity while fasting is hard on the body .
in muslim countries , soccer practice and top-flight games begin after sundown during the period .
not so in germany .
second division teams face the same problem : last year , fsv frankfurt gave three muslim players a warning after they had failed to inform the club that they were fasting .
it 's a dilemma that professional players have faced for years , fsv manager bernd reisig said .
" it 's not easy for soccer players to have to choose between their faith and their profession . "
legal security this year the german soccer league -lrb- dfl -rrb- turned to the central council of muslims in germany for a solution to the problem , which in turn sought the advice of islamic scholars at al-azhar university , one of the leading authorities in sunni islam .
the islam experts issued a fatwa , an islamic religious edict , that decreed an exception to the strict ramadan fasting rules could be made for professional athletes .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aiman mazyek : ' that was our position ' " that was our position from the start , " said aiman mazyek , secretary general of the central council of muslims in germany , who welcomed the ruling .
" but we needed support from leading authorities .
with respect to labor laws and the faith , this ruling gives clubs and players legal security . "
the new ruling affects quite a few players in the first and second divisions .
at fc cologne , for instance , which has three muslim players , adil chichi and youssef mohamad plan to fast nevertheless , said press spokesman christopher lymberopoulos .
" they 've done it for years , so they know how their bodies react , " lymberopoulos said . " they are doing what they always have done : practice their faith while they work as professionals . "
ramadan shortcuts like many professional soccer players , mohamad breaks his fasting on match days in accordance with a previous ruling that allows food and drink during travel .
" in practice that means that on saturday morning , we 'll drive several kilometers down the motorway , " said marcus rauert , fc cologne 's team manager .
" that makes youssef a traveler , and then he is allowed to eat and drink all day long . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamad : a devout muslim , a dedicated soccer player but doctors warn against training and fasting simultaneously on hot summer days . fsv manager reisig said out that while his club has not banned fasting , management demands that players notify them if they fast and may thus be taking supplements that are on a doping list .
fatwa only for professionals " just imagine the outcry if a coach demanded two entire practice units in more than 30-degree -lrb- 86 fahrenheit -rrb- weather and one of the players were to collapse because his body could n't take it , " reisig said .
athletes can choose whether to follow the new ruling or to adhere to the traditional rules of ramadan , but only if they 're professionals ; the exception does not apply to amateur soccer players .
author : olivia fritz / db editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de schalke 's fight song stirs controversy with muslim community for 85 years fans of the schalke soccer team have proudly sung their team anthem .
but now a reference in the lyrics to the muslim prophet muhammad is drawing the ire of some in the muslim community .
-lrb- 04.08.2009 -rrb- germany debates muslim school holiday a proposal by germany 's turkish community to have schools observe one muslim holiday annually has set off a fierce debate in germany .
most are opposed , though some say it would promote tolerance .
-lrb- 14.10.2009 -rrb- muslim students at berlin schools opt out of gym class as a rule , german schools offer three hours of sports instruction each week .
in berlin , many students are refusing to partake - especially muslim girls .
-lrb- 23.01.2006 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic grocery stores in germany have started catering to muslims -lrb- 11.08.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today - the science magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de women -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany 's women 's shelters criticize custody ruling großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around 40,000 women and children flee to shelters yearly women 's shelters in germany fear a court ruling to grant unwed fathers custody will put abused women in greater danger .
others hailed the federal constitutional court 's decision as a victory for single fathers . germany 's women 's shelters have joined the country 's largest single parents ' organization in opposing increased rights for unmarried fathers .
until now , the fathers of children born out of wedlock in germany had no legally guaranteed custody rights .
mothers had the right to withhold joint custody , leaving the father to sue the mother for visitation rights .
but edith schwab , head of germany 's association of single mothers and fathers , says the federal constitutional court 's decision last week to grant custody rights to unwed fathers is bad news for single mothers , who themselves will now have to fight to keep unfit fathers from raising their children .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : now courts can award single fathers full custody " mothers who refuse to share custody have very , very good reasons for their decision - meaning that the potential for conflict between the parents is so great that the mother has rightly chosen to deny joint custody , " she said .
worse yet - according to heike herold , who works with an organization that coordinates women 's shelters across germany - in abuse scenarios , increasing fathers ' rights can undermine the safety of mother and child .
" it becomes problematic when there 's domestic violence , but also when you think of cases in which children are conceived by rape , " herold told deutsche welle .
" when you think of the legislature automatically giving these fathers custody , it becomes quite critical . "
a victory for single fathers on august 3 , germany 's constitutional court ruled that " the current legal situation excessively encroached on paternity rights for fathers of children born out of wedlock , because they could only take part in raising the child with the mother 's consent , " according to spokeswoman judith blohm .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the constitutional court ruled that fathers should have the same rights as mothers blohm said that until now " the fathers also did n't have the right to have a court determine what arrangement was in the best interest of the child . "
the case for increased rights was mounted by a father who had no way to prevent the mother of his child from moving to another city and taking the child with her .
the decision , which is expected to be drafted into law when the legislature returns from its summer break , was heralded as a victory for fathers ' rights .
thorsten nitz , an underground train driver , was one of the many fathers across germany who welcomed the decision .
nitz , who has been denied custody of his children since splitting up with his former partner , said he was " relieved when the ruling came , " adding , " it 's been overdue for years . "
harder to cut ties with abusive partners herold sees the flipside to this new right .
although she welcomes increased paternity rights in principle , she feels there needs to be a system in place to review fathers ' suitability before granting them joint custody .
the decision makes it much more difficult for unmarried women to cut off ties with abusive partners , herold said , adding that unmarried women who left abusive relationships " did n't have the problem that their partner , as the biological father of the child , necessarily had access to the child as part of his visitation and custody rights . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : increased fathers ' rights could threaten abused mothers ' anonymity under the new law , she says , a victim of abuse will " potentially have to mount a court case to protect herself and her children . "
" giving the father custody rights also means that the mother can not decide alone to move to another city or switch her child 's school , " herold added .
tracking down mothers through their children as it is , she said , visitation rights alone often give abusive fathers the opportunity to track down their child 's mother , forcing abused mothers to flee from one halfway home to the next .
herold added that , in cases of children born within wedlock , german courts already assume that contact to the father is nearly always in the child 's best interest .
she worries that more children will now have to live with abusive fathers .
" we know from experience that many family courts operate on the premise that joint custody is the new way of doing things .
they ask the parents to ‘ please settle their disputes in the interest of the child ' - but that does n't work when one side uses violence against the other , " she said . according to herold 's shelter coordination network , some 20,000 abused women seek shelter in halfway houses every year in germany - with another 20,000 children accompanying them .
germany 's federal family ministry estimates that a quarter of the country 's female population will be physically abused by a sexual partner .
author : david levitz editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany 's highest court strengthens unmarried fathers ' rights the german constitutional court decided on tuesday to give unmarried fathers the right to sue for joint custody of their children .
the new ruling brings germany in line with the european court of human rights .
-lrb- 03.08.2010 -rrb- ten eu countries move to streamline divorce process the eu has brought free movement of goods , services and relationships across borders .
but when those international couples divorce , those borders can make it even more complicated .
some eu nations want to change that .
-lrb- 25.03.2010 -rrb- germany says it will improve rights for single dads the german government has said it will make changes to its custody laws after the european court of human rights upheld an unmarried german father 's right to joint custody of his daughter .
-lrb- 04.12.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
clip no. 4 - the intersphere -pipe- clip -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : clip podcasts : dw presents germany 's hottest new bands clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 5 - shantel music -pipe- 11.08.2010 clip no. 4 - the intersphere großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : they sound as if they were old-time pink floyd meeting up for drinks with the police and coming up with the idea of recording a muse album with a lot of echo .
but they 're the intersphere and come from mannheim . band members christoph , sebastian , thomas , and moritz say they " draw on 40 years of rock history " to make their own groove . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the intersphere actually , some time ago , christoph was merely looking for musicians who would help him record his own compositions during a few jam sessions .
but together , the four members realized they could do a lot more - with their second album , " interspheres-atmospheres , " now being released in the united states . the group participated in the 2008 edition of " popcamp , " an educational seminar for up-and-coming pop music stars in germany who want to learn everything about the business - from singing and performance techniques to contracts and copyrights . author : matthias klaus editor : louisa schaefer bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic podcast : clip no. 4 - the intersphere 07 dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live web features different ways to get dw .
dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com dw-world mobile live , mobile , online synchronizing pdas and pocket pcs mobile preview partner : yasssu.com © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour a full dose of schumann and beethoven listen live stock exchange today in history 1818 : " stille nacht , heilige nacht " � silent night , holy © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- feedback do department stores have a future ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live - we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from the german top 100 ... and more !
listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1977 : judgment passed in stammheim © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de retail -pipe- 11.08.2010 court gives karstadt investor more time to finalize takeover großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the rents at karstadt stores are the sticking point judges in the city of essen have extended the deadline for billionaire nicolas berggruen to finalize the takeover of the insolvent karstadt department store chain .
negotiations with creditors have not been easy . nicholas berggruen has been given a reprieve by a german court to finalize takeover negotiations with the creditors of department store chain karstadt , the troubled retailer 's insolvency administrator said on tuesday .
it 's the third extension berggruen has received .
" the period of negotiating , hesitating and blocking has got to come to an end , " administrator klaus hubert goerg said .
berggruen , who signed a deal to acquire karstadt in june , now has until september 2 to get karstadt 's creditors on board , which include valovis bank and the highstreet real-estate consortium led by the goldman sachs group .
all the parties involved say they are confident they can reach an agreement before the deadline , although berggruen and the creditors have been haggling for months over the conditions of the takeover plan .
according to analysts , they have still not reached a final agreement on berggruen 's desire to further lower store property rents .
highstreet has already offered two rounds of rent reductions but berggruen reportedly wants further concessions .
" for example , valovis would have a problem with that because they would have to reduce the value of the stores it owns if the rents were lowered , " klaus kraenzle , an analyst at gsc research in dusseldorf , told deutsche welle .
" it 's simple math . "
a lawyer for valovis said last month that the bank would face " significant liability and legal risks " under berggruen 's demands .
it holds 36 of karstadt 's 120 stores as collateral .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : billionaire nicolas berggruen says he 'll save all 25,000 jobs at karstadt high stakes the stakes are high for the national retail landscape .
not only is karstadt an iconic retailer whose big-box stores are landmarks in most downtown german shopping districts , the company also employs more than 25,000 people and risks being shuttered if a takeover plan does not go through .
despite carrying an official price tag of just one euro , debt transfers mean berggruen 's offer for karstadt is thought to be worth about 70 million euros - plus another 240 million euros in capital expenditure over three years .
the us-german billionaire , who is the son of well-known german art collector and journalist heinz berggruen , won the bidding for karstadt in june , edging out two other offers .
while the sales contract has been signed , it is subject to " certain conditions " such as the agreement on revised rental conditions .
berggruen has promised not to cut jobs at karstadt nor close its stores , and has said the company could recover from the ongoing erosion of department stores ' market share in germany .
" karstadt was not managed in the optimal conditions , " berggruen told the financial times .
" if you put in some imagination and creativity and focus , the business can prosper . "
but will it work ?
some analysts , however , are wondering if the era of the big department store is simply over , despite a long and illustrious history .
karstadt 's first department store opened in 1881 , during the reign of kaiser wilhelm i. its premiere west berlin store - kaufhaus des westens , or kadewe - was an icon of capitalism during the cold war .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : has the department store lost its appearl to consumers ?
but department stores have lost tremendous market share to discounters , speciality stores and the internet .
in 2008 , online retail sales in germany surpassed those of all the country 's department stores combined .
in the summer of 2009 , karstadt filed for insolvency when parent company arcandor , a retail and tourism giant , went under .
arcandor has already sold off its mail-order subsidiary quelle .
" karstadt had suffered under bad management for years , " said analyst kraenzle .
" it did n't know how to use its synergies , especially when it came to quelle .
it completely missed the boat on internet commerce . "
kraenzle said karstadt currently has a 50/50 chance of survival .
author : kyle james editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de new investor found for bankrupt karstadt department stores germany 's karstadt department stores were thrown a lifeline on monday evening .
us investor berggruen is set to take over the company and keep all of its employees on the payroll .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- two german retail chains up for grabs at ‘ clearance sale ’ major department store chains karstadt and kaufhof are up for sale .
while karstadt is still looking for a savior a year after filing for bankruptcy , retail giant metro is looking to shed its profitable kaufhof chain .
-lrb- 03.06.2010 -rrb- karstadt employees have good reason to worry creditors of bankrupt german department store chain karstadt have given the insolvency administrator more time to find a buyer , raising its chances of being sold .
but plenty of jobs will go regardless , experts say .
-lrb- 14.04.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1740 : frederick ii crowned dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany under fire for doing business with cluster bomb producer -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany under fire for doing business with cluster bomb producer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cluster bombs rank among the most inhumane weapons germany 's interior ministry is facing criticism for buying airport body scanners from the subsidiary of a us company known to produce internationally banned cluster munitions .
but it looks unlikely to cancel the deal . the german interior ministry has bought two full-body scanners to be used for tests at hamburg airport in september .
the devices come from a subsidiary of the us l3 communications company , which according to a survey by the ikv pax christi aid organization , is one of seven firms that still produces cluster ammunition .
the deal has come under pressure because germany is a signatory to the convention of the banning of cluster munitions which came into force on august 1 .
at a news conference in berlin on monday , ministry spokesman philipp spauschus had a hard time justifying the deal .
" there are no other producers in the world that are able the deliver body scanners of the quality that the us company boasts , " spauschus said .
" if we were to cancel the contract now , we 'd not be able to carry out any tests at hamburg airport . "
passing the buck the spokesman added that the delivery request had gone out solely to eas envimet analytical systems based in brunn , austria , which had then ordered the scanners from l3 communications security and detection systems in the us .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have done little to keep the big powers from using cluster bombs it is widely believed that the ministry must have known from the start where the scanners would originate .
spauschus left this question unanswered on monday , saying that the government was only now looking into whether the deal was ethically acceptable .
francois de keersmaeker , managing director of the handicap international aid group that supports cluster bomb victims , accused the government in berlin of double standards .
knowing that there 's no legal instrument of preventing such deals , he pointed to the moral and political dimensions involved .
moral standards asked for " you simply weaken the treaty prohibiting cluster munitions if you pursue such business activities , " de keersmaeker told deutsche welle .
" the german government - like every other potential buyer - should adhere to some ethical norms while deciding where to buy what , and berlin should in future be more careful about it . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : kuechenmeister is upset about berlin 's behavior thomas kuechenmeister , of the german landmine.de pressure group , also found that such business contracts should be taboo for countries which signed the convention on the banning of cluster munitions .
" i call on the government in berlin to renounce such deals immediately , " kuechenmeister said .
so far , well over 100 countries have signed and another 37 nations have ratified the convention that prohibits the production and proliferation of cluster ammunition .
this type of weapon has caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of civilians the world over . but the treaty has not been signed yet by some of the world 's largest producers or possessors of cluster bombs , including china , russia , the united states , pakistan and brazil .
author : hardy graupner editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin calls for more international support against cluster bombs cluster bombs have been banned by an international convention that came into force on august 1 .
germany is among 108 countries who have signed up , but there are still some major military powers missing from the list .
-lrb- 01.08.2010 -rrb- german firm specialized in destroying cluster munitions has plenty of work germany ratified the un convention on cluster munitions on thursday , pledging to destroy its complete arsenal by 2015 .
this means at least six years of dangerous work for a company near berlin .
-lrb- 28.06.2009 -rrb- human rights groups push for ratifcation of cluster munitions ban several of the 96 states that have so far signed a treaty to ban cluster bombs have started to destroy their stockpiles of the deadly weapons , even before the accord is ratified .
-lrb- 29.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic a treaty banning cluster bombs is enacted -lrb- 01.08.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 11.08.2010 books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pressler 's " malka mai " is based the memories of a holocaust survivor writer mirjam pressler believes books can help people come to terms with their circumstances - even if they ca n't change the world .
her works focus on struggling figures who may help readers see their lives differently . author mirjam pressler is a sharp observer who writes in a simple , precise style about characters who do n't have it easy in life . her celebrated debut novel " bitter chocolate " -lrb- 1980 -rrb- centered on a 15-year-old with an eating disorder .
the book was recognized with the oldenburg prize for children and youth , which proved to be just the first of many honors for the industrious author . pressler has written more than 40 books in the last 30 years , and she has also translated more than 300 from hebrew , english and dutch into german - including a critical edition of the diary of anne frank .
pressler 's own works have also been translated many times , including the 2001 all-ages title " malka mai " that was translated into 14 languages . the end of a childhood bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : malka 's mother must decide to leave her with farmers in the carpathian mountains it 's september , 1943 , and malka still has her own bed , her own clothes in the closet , new sandals , beautiful blond braids and enough to eat ; she even has her big sister minna and her mother , dr. mai . less than half of a year later , malka has learned " to hear nothing , see nothing , and to hole up inside herself . "
she has lost her home and the confidence that her mother would always be there .
she has been starved , completely shaved and can scarcely remember being the child of seven years old that she was just a few months ago . in early fall 1943 , germans began deporting citizens in lawoczne , a small town on the german-polish border .
doctor hanna mai and her two daughters , minna and malka , were forced to flee suddenly by foot across the carpathian mountains into hungary . along the way , seven-year-old malka becomes sick and catches a high fever .
her mother makes the agonizing decision to leave her with a family of farmers .
they assure her that they will bring malka to her once she recovers - after all , no one expects a child to stand out . but things do n't turn out as planned .
malka is betrayed , sent to a prison and then into the ghetto .
a nightmare begins at the fringes of a collapsing civilization .
in the end , though , malka survives and is even able to find her way back to her mother - although she has become practically a different person in the meantime . experienced history bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mirjam pressler won the german book prize in 2004 for her works today , malka mai lives in tel aviv .
she had recounted to mirjam pressler the parts of her story that she is able to remember .
having shared some of mai 's experiences , pressler was able to fill in the gaps knowingly and sensitively .
pressler is also jewish , just slightly younger than mai , and was raised by foster parents and in a boarding school . her narration treats more than just a child who must cast off her memories to survive ; the story also portrays a mother who nearly falls apart due to self-doubt and blame . mirjam pressler once said she does n't buy into the notion that books can change the world .
but , she said , the right book can move some people deeply . that may happen , for instance , when a book shows how someone can remain open to things getting better , or when a child learns through reading that he is n't responsible for circumstances he ca n't control . " malka mai " is just that kind of book . author : silke bartlick -lrb- gsw -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- everyone loves the little mole who never gave up it may be the most natural thing in the world , but werner holzwarth was one of the first to write a children 's book about it .
it came as a surprise to some that a story about shit became an international hit .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- german children 's books prove to be bestsellers abroad books for kids from germany have become a hit on the international book market .
storybook heroes like those from cornelia funke or michael ende are beloved by young readers from the us to china or korea .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german children 's publishers take traditional route to success books for young people have resisted the economic crisis .
the youth segment in publishing shows stable growth - even though the majority of children 's and youth publishers are refusing to go digital .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
the podcast 's homepage somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 11.08.2010 books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pressler 's " malka mai " is based the memories of a holocaust survivor writer mirjam pressler believes books can help people come to terms with their circumstances - even if they ca n't change the world .
her works focus on struggling figures who may help readers see their lives differently . author mirjam pressler is a sharp observer who writes in a simple , precise style about characters who do n't have it easy in life . her celebrated debut novel " bitter chocolate " -lrb- 1980 -rrb- centered on a 15-year-old with an eating disorder .
the book was recognized with the oldenburg prize for children and youth , which proved to be just the first of many honors for the industrious author . pressler has written more than 40 books in the last 30 years , and she has also translated more than 300 from hebrew , english and dutch into german - including a critical edition of the diary of anne frank .
pressler 's own works have also been translated many times , including the 2001 all-ages title " malka mai " that was translated into 14 languages . the end of a childhood bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : malka 's mother must decide to leave her with farmers in the carpathian mountains it 's september , 1943 , and malka still has her own bed , her own clothes in the closet , new sandals , beautiful blond braids and enough to eat ; she even has her big sister minna and her mother , dr. mai . less than half of a year later , malka has learned " to hear nothing , see nothing , and to hole up inside herself . "
she has lost her home and the confidence that her mother would always be there .
she has been starved , completely shaved and can scarcely remember being the child of seven years old that she was just a few months ago . in early fall 1943 , germans began deporting citizens in lawoczne , a small town on the german-polish border .
doctor hanna mai and her two daughters , minna and malka , were forced to flee suddenly by foot across the carpathian mountains into hungary . along the way , seven-year-old malka becomes sick and catches a high fever .
her mother makes the agonizing decision to leave her with a family of farmers .
they assure her that they will bring malka to her once she recovers - after all , no one expects a child to stand out . but things do n't turn out as planned .
malka is betrayed , sent to a prison and then into the ghetto .
a nightmare begins at the fringes of a collapsing civilization .
in the end , though , malka survives and is even able to find her way back to her mother - although she has become practically a different person in the meantime . experienced history bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mirjam pressler won the german book prize in 2004 for her works today , malka mai lives in tel aviv .
she had recounted to mirjam pressler the parts of her story that she is able to remember .
having shared some of mai 's experiences , pressler was able to fill in the gaps knowingly and sensitively .
pressler is also jewish , just slightly younger than mai , and was raised by foster parents and in a boarding school . her narration treats more than just a child who must cast off her memories to survive ; the story also portrays a mother who nearly falls apart due to self-doubt and blame . mirjam pressler once said she does n't buy into the notion that books can change the world .
but , she said , the right book can move some people deeply . that may happen , for instance , when a book shows how someone can remain open to things getting better , or when a child learns through reading that he is n't responsible for circumstances he ca n't control . " malka mai " is just that kind of book . author : silke bartlick -lrb- gsw -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- everyone loves the little mole who never gave up it may be the most natural thing in the world , but werner holzwarth was one of the first to write a children 's book about it .
it came as a surprise to some that a story about shit became an international hit .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- german children 's books prove to be bestsellers abroad books for kids from germany have become a hit on the international book market .
storybook heroes like those from cornelia funke or michael ende are beloved by young readers from the us to china or korea .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german children 's publishers take traditional route to success books for young people have resisted the economic crisis .
the youth segment in publishing shows stable growth - even though the majority of children 's and youth publishers are refusing to go digital .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- feedback have you read " malka mai " ?
if so , what did you think ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany under fire for doing business with cluster bomb producer -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 11.08.2010 germany under fire for doing business with cluster bomb producer großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cluster bombs rank among the most inhumane weapons germany 's interior ministry is facing criticism for buying airport body scanners from the subsidiary of a us company known to produce internationally banned cluster munitions .
but it looks unlikely to cancel the deal . the german interior ministry has bought two full-body scanners to be used for tests at hamburg airport in september .
the devices come from a subsidiary of the us l3 communications company , which according to a survey by the ikv pax christi aid organization , is one of seven firms that still produces cluster ammunition .
the deal has come under pressure because germany is a signatory to the convention of the banning of cluster munitions which came into force on august 1 .
at a news conference in berlin on monday , ministry spokesman philipp spauschus had a hard time justifying the deal .
" there are no other producers in the world that are able the deliver body scanners of the quality that the us company boasts , " spauschus said .
" if we were to cancel the contract now , we 'd not be able to carry out any tests at hamburg airport . "
passing the buck the spokesman added that the delivery request had gone out solely to eas envimet analytical systems based in brunn , austria , which had then ordered the scanners from l3 communications security and detection systems in the us .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : protests have done little to keep the big powers from using cluster bombs it is widely believed that the ministry must have known from the start where the scanners would originate .
spauschus left this question unanswered on monday , saying that the government was only now looking into whether the deal was ethically acceptable .
francois de keersmaeker , managing director of the handicap international aid group that supports cluster bomb victims , accused the government in berlin of double standards .
knowing that there 's no legal instrument of preventing such deals , he pointed to the moral and political dimensions involved .
moral standards asked for " you simply weaken the treaty prohibiting cluster munitions if you pursue such business activities , " de keersmaeker told deutsche welle .
" the german government - like every other potential buyer - should adhere to some ethical norms while deciding where to buy what , and berlin should in future be more careful about it . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : kuechenmeister is upset about berlin 's behavior thomas kuechenmeister , of the german landmine.de pressure group , also found that such business contracts should be taboo for countries which signed the convention on the banning of cluster munitions .
" i call on the government in berlin to renounce such deals immediately , " kuechenmeister said .
so far , well over 100 countries have signed and another 37 nations have ratified the convention that prohibits the production and proliferation of cluster ammunition .
this type of weapon has caused the deaths of hundreds of thousands of civilians the world over . but the treaty has not been signed yet by some of the world 's largest producers or possessors of cluster bombs , including china , russia , the united states , pakistan and brazil .
author : hardy graupner editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de berlin calls for more international support against cluster bombs cluster bombs have been banned by an international convention that came into force on august 1 .
germany is among 108 countries who have signed up , but there are still some major military powers missing from the list .
-lrb- 01.08.2010 -rrb- german firm specialized in destroying cluster munitions has plenty of work germany ratified the un convention on cluster munitions on thursday , pledging to destroy its complete arsenal by 2015 .
this means at least six years of dangerous work for a company near berlin .
-lrb- 28.06.2009 -rrb- human rights groups push for ratifcation of cluster munitions ban several of the 96 states that have so far signed a treaty to ban cluster bombs have started to destroy their stockpiles of the deadly weapons , even before the accord is ratified .
-lrb- 29.05.2009 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic a treaty banning cluster bombs is enacted -lrb- 01.08.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live deutschland heute we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 11.08.2010 books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pressler 's " malka mai " is based the memories of a holocaust survivor writer mirjam pressler believes books can help people come to terms with their circumstances - even if they ca n't change the world .
her works focus on struggling figures who may help readers see their lives differently . author mirjam pressler is a sharp observer who writes in a simple , precise style about characters who do n't have it easy in life . her celebrated debut novel " bitter chocolate " -lrb- 1980 -rrb- centered on a 15-year-old with an eating disorder .
the book was recognized with the oldenburg prize for children and youth , which proved to be just the first of many honors for the industrious author . pressler has written more than 40 books in the last 30 years , and she has also translated more than 300 from hebrew , english and dutch into german - including a critical edition of the diary of anne frank .
pressler 's own works have also been translated many times , including the 2001 all-ages title " malka mai " that was translated into 14 languages . the end of a childhood bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : malka 's mother must decide to leave her with farmers in the carpathian mountains it 's september , 1943 , and malka still has her own bed , her own clothes in the closet , new sandals , beautiful blond braids and enough to eat ; she even has her big sister minna and her mother , dr. mai . less than half of a year later , malka has learned " to hear nothing , see nothing , and to hole up inside herself . "
she has lost her home and the confidence that her mother would always be there .
she has been starved , completely shaved and can scarcely remember being the child of seven years old that she was just a few months ago . in early fall 1943 , germans began deporting citizens in lawoczne , a small town on the german-polish border .
doctor hanna mai and her two daughters , minna and malka , were forced to flee suddenly by foot across the carpathian mountains into hungary . along the way , seven-year-old malka becomes sick and catches a high fever .
her mother makes the agonizing decision to leave her with a family of farmers .
they assure her that they will bring malka to her once she recovers - after all , no one expects a child to stand out . but things do n't turn out as planned .
malka is betrayed , sent to a prison and then into the ghetto .
a nightmare begins at the fringes of a collapsing civilization .
in the end , though , malka survives and is even able to find her way back to her mother - although she has become practically a different person in the meantime . experienced history bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mirjam pressler won the german book prize in 2004 for her works today , malka mai lives in tel aviv .
she had recounted to mirjam pressler the parts of her story that she is able to remember .
having shared some of mai 's experiences , pressler was able to fill in the gaps knowingly and sensitively .
pressler is also jewish , just slightly younger than mai , and was raised by foster parents and in a boarding school . her narration treats more than just a child who must cast off her memories to survive ; the story also portrays a mother who nearly falls apart due to self-doubt and blame . mirjam pressler once said she does n't buy into the notion that books can change the world .
but , she said , the right book can move some people deeply . that may happen , for instance , when a book shows how someone can remain open to things getting better , or when a child learns through reading that he is n't responsible for circumstances he ca n't control . " malka mai " is just that kind of book . author : silke bartlick -lrb- gsw -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- everyone loves the little mole who never gave up it may be the most natural thing in the world , but werner holzwarth was one of the first to write a children 's book about it .
it came as a surprise to some that a story about shit became an international hit .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- german children 's books prove to be bestsellers abroad books for kids from germany have become a hit on the international book market .
storybook heroes like those from cornelia funke or michael ende are beloved by young readers from the us to china or korea .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german children 's publishers take traditional route to success books for young people have resisted the economic crisis .
the youth segment in publishing shows stable growth - even though the majority of children 's and youth publishers are refusing to go digital .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
sole meunière tortelloni with artichoke filling sea bass in a salt crust swabian spätzle veal schnitzel from switzerland seafood from scotland swedish crispbread podcast series traveling on a budget ?
dw presents shoestring guides to european cities .
get all the episodes subscribe on itunes get the rss feed podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 11.08.2010 books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pressler 's " malka mai " is based the memories of a holocaust survivor writer mirjam pressler believes books can help people come to terms with their circumstances - even if they ca n't change the world .
her works focus on struggling figures who may help readers see their lives differently . author mirjam pressler is a sharp observer who writes in a simple , precise style about characters who do n't have it easy in life . her celebrated debut novel " bitter chocolate " -lrb- 1980 -rrb- centered on a 15-year-old with an eating disorder .
the book was recognized with the oldenburg prize for children and youth , which proved to be just the first of many honors for the industrious author . pressler has written more than 40 books in the last 30 years , and she has also translated more than 300 from hebrew , english and dutch into german - including a critical edition of the diary of anne frank .
pressler 's own works have also been translated many times , including the 2001 all-ages title " malka mai " that was translated into 14 languages . the end of a childhood bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : malka 's mother must decide to leave her with farmers in the carpathian mountains it 's september , 1943 , and malka still has her own bed , her own clothes in the closet , new sandals , beautiful blond braids and enough to eat ; she even has her big sister minna and her mother , dr. mai . less than half of a year later , malka has learned " to hear nothing , see nothing , and to hole up inside herself . "
she has lost her home and the confidence that her mother would always be there .
she has been starved , completely shaved and can scarcely remember being the child of seven years old that she was just a few months ago . in early fall 1943 , germans began deporting citizens in lawoczne , a small town on the german-polish border .
doctor hanna mai and her two daughters , minna and malka , were forced to flee suddenly by foot across the carpathian mountains into hungary . along the way , seven-year-old malka becomes sick and catches a high fever .
her mother makes the agonizing decision to leave her with a family of farmers .
they assure her that they will bring malka to her once she recovers - after all , no one expects a child to stand out . but things do n't turn out as planned .
malka is betrayed , sent to a prison and then into the ghetto .
a nightmare begins at the fringes of a collapsing civilization .
in the end , though , malka survives and is even able to find her way back to her mother - although she has become practically a different person in the meantime . experienced history bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mirjam pressler won the german book prize in 2004 for her works today , malka mai lives in tel aviv .
she had recounted to mirjam pressler the parts of her story that she is able to remember .
having shared some of mai 's experiences , pressler was able to fill in the gaps knowingly and sensitively .
pressler is also jewish , just slightly younger than mai , and was raised by foster parents and in a boarding school . her narration treats more than just a child who must cast off her memories to survive ; the story also portrays a mother who nearly falls apart due to self-doubt and blame . mirjam pressler once said she does n't buy into the notion that books can change the world .
but , she said , the right book can move some people deeply . that may happen , for instance , when a book shows how someone can remain open to things getting better , or when a child learns through reading that he is n't responsible for circumstances he ca n't control . " malka mai " is just that kind of book . author : silke bartlick -lrb- gsw -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- everyone loves the little mole who never gave up it may be the most natural thing in the world , but werner holzwarth was one of the first to write a children 's book about it .
it came as a surprise to some that a story about shit became an international hit .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- german children 's books prove to be bestsellers abroad books for kids from germany have become a hit on the international book market .
storybook heroes like those from cornelia funke or michael ende are beloved by young readers from the us to china or korea .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german children 's publishers take traditional route to success books for young people have resisted the economic crisis .
the youth segment in publishing shows stable growth - even though the majority of children 's and youth publishers are refusing to go digital .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
dw-tv meet exceptional women who have achieved success in male-dominated jobs .
dj smokin joe car designer juliane blasi architect zeynep fadillioglu chef annie féolde conductor inma shara podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links deutsche welle will be twittering live from eurovision eurovision song contest 's official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links check out designer tobias fränzel 's website find anna calvi on myspace follow deutsche welle on twitter 07 dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download champions ' single ' castles in the sand ' www-links check out champions ' myspace page feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links singing for change website roots n routes website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links follow deutsche welle on twitter feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week liquid assets listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download champions ' single ' castles in the sand ' www-links check out benyamin nuss ' official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live radio feature what 's playing ?
from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best of germany top 100 .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links cybermentors website herolymp - the avatar graveyard -lrb- in german only -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links world chess boxing organization website anders trentemoller 's official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links latvian band brainstorm 's official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download champions ' single ' castles in the sand ' www-links check out benyamin nuss ' official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links deutsche welle will be twittering live from eurovision eurovision song contest 's official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links world chess boxing organization website anders trentemoller 's official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links singing for change website roots n routes website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links cybermentors website herolymp - the avatar graveyard -lrb- in german only -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links follow deutsche welle on twitter feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download champions ' single ' castles in the sand ' www-links check out benyamin nuss ' official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live radio feature what 's playing ?
from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best of germany top 100 .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links latvian band brainstorm 's official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links check out designer tobias fränzel 's website find anna calvi on myspace follow deutsche welle on twitter 9799 dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links deutsche welle will be twittering live from eurovision eurovision song contest 's official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links singing for change website roots n routes website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live kultur.21 - das kulturmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links boys noize records feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links deutsche welle will be twittering live from eurovision eurovision song contest 's official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air vienna ’ s annual cultural festival listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links cybermentors website herolymp - the avatar graveyard -lrb- in german only -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links latvian band brainstorm 's official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links radio los santos on myspace feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live discover germany - the tv travel guide we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour schwetzingen festival -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download champions ' single ' castles in the sand ' www-links check out benyamin nuss ' official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the latest from germany 's top 100 listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links world chess boxing organization website anders trentemoller 's official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live people and politics we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links check out designer tobias fränzel 's website find anna calvi on myspace follow deutsche welle on twitter feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links one world documentary film festival in prague german dog-sled racer sebastian schuelle is racing the iditarod feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links world chess boxing organization website anders trentemoller 's official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet tiger protection , aquaponics , mexican gm corn and exporting waste to russia listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links singing for change website roots n routes website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic download champions ' single ' castles in the sand ' www-links check out benyamin nuss ' official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view dw on demand video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links check out designer tobias fränzel 's website find anna calvi on myspace follow deutsche welle on twitter feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
pulse 's link tip -pipe- pulse -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
pulse reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 11.08.2010 pulse 's link tip send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links deutsche welle will be twittering live from eurovision eurovision song contest 's official website feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live global 3000 - the globalization program we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
radio feature soundscape 100 from candy pop to r ' n ' b , indie rock to disco punk , we bring you the best from the german charts .
word of the week learn a quirky or interesting german word each week .
word of the week photos see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 11.08.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 11.08.2010 books ca n't change the world , says author mirjam pressler großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pressler 's " malka mai " is based the memories of a holocaust survivor writer mirjam pressler believes books can help people come to terms with their circumstances - even if they ca n't change the world .
her works focus on struggling figures who may help readers see their lives differently . author mirjam pressler is a sharp observer who writes in a simple , precise style about characters who do n't have it easy in life . her celebrated debut novel " bitter chocolate " -lrb- 1980 -rrb- centered on a 15-year-old with an eating disorder .
the book was recognized with the oldenburg prize for children and youth , which proved to be just the first of many honors for the industrious author . pressler has written more than 40 books in the last 30 years , and she has also translated more than 300 from hebrew , english and dutch into german - including a critical edition of the diary of anne frank .
pressler 's own works have also been translated many times , including the 2001 all-ages title " malka mai " that was translated into 14 languages . the end of a childhood bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : malka 's mother must decide to leave her with farmers in the carpathian mountains it 's september , 1943 , and malka still has her own bed , her own clothes in the closet , new sandals , beautiful blond braids and enough to eat ; she even has her big sister minna and her mother , dr. mai . less than half of a year later , malka has learned " to hear nothing , see nothing , and to hole up inside herself . "
she has lost her home and the confidence that her mother would always be there .
she has been starved , completely shaved and can scarcely remember being the child of seven years old that she was just a few months ago . in early fall 1943 , germans began deporting citizens in lawoczne , a small town on the german-polish border .
doctor hanna mai and her two daughters , minna and malka , were forced to flee suddenly by foot across the carpathian mountains into hungary . along the way , seven-year-old malka becomes sick and catches a high fever .
her mother makes the agonizing decision to leave her with a family of farmers .
they assure her that they will bring malka to her once she recovers - after all , no one expects a child to stand out . but things do n't turn out as planned .
malka is betrayed , sent to a prison and then into the ghetto .
a nightmare begins at the fringes of a collapsing civilization .
in the end , though , malka survives and is even able to find her way back to her mother - although she has become practically a different person in the meantime . experienced history bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mirjam pressler won the german book prize in 2004 for her works today , malka mai lives in tel aviv .
she had recounted to mirjam pressler the parts of her story that she is able to remember .
having shared some of mai 's experiences , pressler was able to fill in the gaps knowingly and sensitively .
pressler is also jewish , just slightly younger than mai , and was raised by foster parents and in a boarding school . her narration treats more than just a child who must cast off her memories to survive ; the story also portrays a mother who nearly falls apart due to self-doubt and blame . mirjam pressler once said she does n't buy into the notion that books can change the world .
but , she said , the right book can move some people deeply . that may happen , for instance , when a book shows how someone can remain open to things getting better , or when a child learns through reading that he is n't responsible for circumstances he ca n't control . " malka mai " is just that kind of book . author : silke bartlick -lrb- gsw -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- everyone loves the little mole who never gave up it may be the most natural thing in the world , but werner holzwarth was one of the first to write a children 's book about it .
it came as a surprise to some that a story about shit became an international hit .
-lrb- 04.08.2010 -rrb- german children 's books prove to be bestsellers abroad books for kids from germany have become a hit on the international book market .
storybook heroes like those from cornelia funke or michael ende are beloved by young readers from the us to china or korea .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german children 's publishers take traditional route to success books for young people have resisted the economic crisis .
the youth segment in publishing shows stable growth - even though the majority of children 's and youth publishers are refusing to go digital .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
